So we're here for part two of my talk with Luca Rade.
Can I get it close? Is that close?
Yeah, that was good.
Excellent.
And when we left off, we were talking about the difference between the sort of top down hierarchical authoritarian religious regimes and the possibility of an emergent God.
Yeah. And I want to kind of re-emphasize what we were saying that the top down authoritarian religious regime is a thrisp or an organism or however you want to call it.
Yes, it's a colonizing force in human society, consciousness, thought, speech, everything.
Exactly, yeah. It's not just like a symbolic system. It's like a real dynamic entity of some form.
Yes, it evolves. It captures humans better over time or more strangely. Yes, yes. Well, at least you and I agree that at the very least this is a useful way to think whether or not it represents quote unquote the facts or whatever.
It's very important to be able to think this way because it gives us options and opportunities to evade, but yes, please continue from wherever you'd like.
I'm really glad you said that because if you see it as like, oh, we're purely trying to establish facts, it's just a very different lens that then, yeah, it distorts the actual communication.
Yeah, so I'm really glad you added that. Yes, I mean, I'm a big fan of
prospectivity, right? Like any way that we can learn to see better together. And it's really easy to get lost in that in various ways, but it's also easy to dismiss things because, well, that doesn't refer to anything that I can actually get a grip on, you know.
But I think we can get a grip on this particular thing. So let's return for a moment to what you mean by an emergent God.
Yeah. So the concept of emergence, at least in Western society is only a few decades old, which is the idea that from parts that are quite simple relative to what comes out there can be an emergent entity that can be
in its level as an entity, like it has a cohesion to it, and that has properties that are not present in the parts, like you can't trace them, you can't reduce the bigger
Yeah, there's not one to one correspondence. Yeah. Yeah. Well, there's actually no like the parts literally don't contain the higher level properties at all.
They're purely emergent. Yeah. Which even in a conversation between two people, it's clear that like something in between something forms between them, they influence it together, you know, this kind of thing.
Exactly. And all of all of symbiosis hitchhikes, I mean, organisms hitchhike on heat gradients, right, but heat gradients don't invent organisms.
Hmm, right. Well, that way to say that, say that one again, so
So almost all organisms hitchhike on heat gradients for metabolic processes, if you just go look at warm places, you find more organisms, right?
Right.
But the heat doesn't invent organisms.
Ah, I see, I see, right.
So you have this relationship, but it's not a one to one causal thing.
Right, exactly. And you wouldn't find the organisms in the heat gradients and the other components that have all gone into creating that particular
Precisely.
Yeah.
And this is a big thing also with digital technology actually as a quick aside, that if you have a picture of something, you actually don't sense a lot of the emergence, the emergence within whatever the picture is capturing, even though we've been lied to that that it somehow does.
Yes.
An amazing amount of emergent properties and beautiful emergent entities are lost because of this lie that there's a correspondence between image and the thing itself that is there.
Well, this is the problem. Yes, this is the problem with representation at all.
Right.
Any kind of representation.
Yeah.
If you have the representation, you're sort of relating with an artifact as if it's alive or it's real or, you know, a quick aside, I think we're taking about 11 billion photographs per day.
Those completely correctly.
And that's not talking about video or anything like that. That's just photographs. Right.
So all that stuff has to go somewhere be stored somewhere be transmitted backed up, you know, modified, whatever.
A lot of stuff has to die to keep those photos.
Right.
Right.
They have a physical. So if you want to talk about an example of a thrift photography might be one of the best examples. It seems relatively innocuous. Hey, we don't need photographic paper anymore and we don't have those nasty chemicals and all of that.
It seems like a great thing. Not a great thing if people are photographing their food and those photographs are actually competing against the organisms they're eating for survival and winning.
Right.
This is an excellent example of a thrift.
Yeah.
Yeah, let's go ahead.
Kind of a study thing like this online interactive portal, but I think it was an academic work that is looking at if you tell Alexa to switch off your lights.
I think that's what the case study was. It was something very simple.
And it seems like that saves effort, right, but it's it literally traces like the supply chain of the Amazon Echo and the electricity generation and all of that.
And it's actually an insane footprint just to tell Alexa to turn off the lights like it adds up to an extreme extent and but it's all hidden so it feels easier but it's actually yeah there's the hidden material as well as I guess spatial costs like more space is taken up by
industrial structure is is surprisingly large.
But yeah, let's get back to the God is emergent because otherwise we're going to get lost in the asides because that is the thing I really want to share.
So yeah, we've talked about emergence so hopefully that's clear to some extent.
So essentially, let's just back up for a second. So you've got like layers, right.
And at the, you know, there's for the humans is you could make layers wherever you want them you could say there's the planet, there's organisms in general there's the humans as organisms there's the humans as animals.
There's the humans of social animals and then there's linguistic and representational animals. So you get these layers, right. And so from where does God emerge.
Yeah, that's a great question.
I'll say like, just how God emerges and in the process of that layer will emerge as well.
Or become clear.
So, see how to how to enter it in a in a in a good way.
Yeah, so this divine energy that we feel sometimes some more than others, you know, it's, but for everyone it's variable that's important to say like no one is tapped into love or tapped into divinity, or maybe they're the same thing or closely related.
No one's tapped into that all the time. And most of us are very rarely tapped into it. And sometimes, you know, it, but it's the tapping into it is rare enough that usually it doesn't really crystallize into enough or anything.
It's just it's like an apparition, or it gets channeled into a through religious structure that says, Oh, this is a sign from the top down authority God, whereas actually what it is is something that's emergent from, and here the layer comes in.
Well, definitely the social layer is where it emerges from, but also life itself like the force of organisms wanting to survive and reproduce is where love comes from like that's the evolutionary emergence of it is like out of that.
It's really complicated exactly where it emerges from, and like the evolutionary aspects, like, you know, I don't want to falsely oversimplify that. But in any case, it's, it's out of the force of life, the hunger of life to be born of itself and to fully flourish.
And that's in humans that reaches some kind of new collectivity, because we're so particularly social in a way that's different from other animals and we form collectives that have this this different quality to them.
And so that this feeling of love, which in other organisms is more pair bonding or small groups in humans kind of like swallows everything somehow, you know, like it's towards it becomes potent enough to just kind of be everywhere where humans are but it's it's not like it's just in humans.
And I'm sure you know what I mean by this but it maybe it's hard. If one hasn't experienced it like it's, it's kind of everywhere.
You just feel it somehow like this. Sometimes.
Or like your oneness experiences or like Gaia, you know, there's a lot of different or cosmic unity or the Dow like the, you know, the, the chief field there's a lot of different in different religions there's different terms for this sense of there being like some kind of field of energy everywhere.
And that is that and that is emerging out of humans and in turn through us out of life itself.
But it's not just contained in us, like in that it's just like an imagination, a figment of our imagination. It really is kind of encompassing of everything. Again, like factually, this doesn't make sense but in terms of the feeling is hopefully
gets across. Yeah, let me ask you some questions. So
is it your usual perspective that
God is mostly emergent or is God becoming emergent in our time or was there like, I mean, in my own metaphysics.
There's, I don't even know how to, it's very difficult to preach topics this deep in simple brief language, right, we can both admit that so our, you know, viewers please bear with us we're struggling with monumental topics in brief periods of time.
But there's something like, in my own metaphysics, I am inclined to think and see as if unity is actually the pervasive situation and separation is largely an illusion.
It's a very compelling illusion, but it's largely illusory. You may see it very differently. So for me, the urge toward what we usually call spiritual pursuits and all this language is value laden, of course.
But the urge toward that arises from the memory that unity actually has precedence and symbiosis is similar right symbiosis is the expression of the precedence of unity, at least in the highly beneficial forms of symbiosis right there's different forms parasitism being one of them.
So, for me, the unity is pervasive and when it is felt, when it is sensed.
And this often deeply involves emotions, then it says if it's not so much that we're perhaps discovering something as we are remembering something, but then there's it also transforms how we are able to participate and feel and see and love and, you know, play and be human together.
So help me see more clearly anything that that you can help me see the emerging God.
Yeah, well I think we might be saying the same thing actually.
I wouldn't surprise me.
Yeah.
But can you clarify what you mean by unity first.
Okay, so I have a
Let me take a couple minutes here and present a model.
I'll try to make it as brief as possible.
If you have a if you have a strobe light in a room that's dark, and you turn the light up high enough so it's blinking really fast.
Right. Imagine you have a strobe light that keeps blinking faster.
Pretty soon the room will just be light.
You won't be able to tell the light is flashing at all.
Right.
So imagine that everything in the universe, imagine that the universe is like the strobe light. Okay, it's off twice the amount of time that it's on, but it's flashing so fast that even though it's always off twice the amount of time light just looks like it's on.
Okay, and what the on phase means is distinct things.
And what the off phase means is everything collapses back along its timelines to unity.
All the information is shared at the unity, then it expands back to distinction.
This is a really powerful toy model.
I'm not saying the universe is doing this, but it's doing something resembling this so that actually most of the time.
Everything is just one.
A tiny portion of the time.
It's separate.
And in the unity phase, so this explains things like telepathy. Right. What are people doing by just dragging information back from the unity phase to the distinction phase, or literally just pulling memory from unity back to distinction.
In any case,
that kind of a universe.
Also the sphere has segments so it goes from unity to ambiguity to possibility to probability to determinism to physical structure on the outside.
And then it collapses, it collapses through those phases to unity. And this is something that I've actually experienced so it's not just Darren having heavy theories, but it's a, it's a toy model of it.
So what I mean by unity is actually the standing in this model anyway, the standing fact that most of the time, we're one being all the beings in all of time, not just now or historically or in the future like the whole thing.
Like the whole damn thing collapses from the entirety of time to origin.
And then back to, oh, we're here in 2023, you know, whatever, wherever we are.
So maybe that's a lot to just plop out there like that, but I find this model very useful, because my mind is doing something similar to it.
It matches most of the phenomenon I see very well.
A tree, if you just look at the growth of a tree, you can see it's tracing unity over time.
As it's expanding and branching, it actually looks like part of this structure that happens in the outer part of the sphere as things move from unity through ambiguity to you see what I'm getting at.
And it even partly explains why we have weird questions about quantum mechanics because quantum mechanics is not in the determinant, right, layer, it's in the layer just before that where it's probability.
This is why we use probability to understand quantum mechanics.
It's not as if there's an actual state, right, until we measure it and the waveform collapses, right, at least at present understanding.
So it's a useful toy, but that's what I mean by unity. Most of the time, I think we're just one thing, one being.
And of course, you know, is this inside of God or is God imminent in the process. That's a more complex question.
Yeah.
Well, what comes to my mind is a distinction between like two, two layers of asking this question.
One is, is God like emerge so what I think I disagree with you in the second layer.
I more as a like, it's a disagreement which I feel like is unresolvable because it's like an unresolvable realm basically.
So you're saying this for I think for me the unity that you're talking about is something that only came with humans like he is enabled by by human consciousness and the sphere of consciousness that we have as humans together at least the
experience of it, maybe not the actual phenomenon.
However, I think that's like the second layer, which I think doesn't actually matter to the first layer, which is that the getting to that experience, like like returning to unity as you would put it or for me like birthing the emerging God,
which are two maybe very different frames, but they're kind of the same thing on the layer of actually.
It's okay if they're different I want to hear about birthing the immersion God let's go there.
Yeah, what so that the.
I'm trying to think if I can to connect it to the unity framework because I quite like that.
So yeah, so it would be like, either it's, if it's only existing in humans like this, this divine energy or if it has only the experience the possibility of experiencing has only emerged with humans.
Well certainly we could agree about one thing.
Humans experiencing it as humans is special.
If the world is experiencing it.
Once you put humans on the world you get a special new layer of this kind of experience for sure.
Right. Yeah, exactly that's what I'm getting at with these two layers.
I think it's really important because I think otherwise, because I'm, I don't this is not like an isolated distinction that we're having like I think in the world, these two viewpoints, often do clash with each other in different ways like, you know, in different terms.
So I think it is important to say that they even in both of those the first layer is the same and the first layer is either it's being burst, you know, just in humans or the humans experiencing it as humans is special.
But either way, the process of bringing us into that experience more fully is shared, or like it's the same thing, you know, do you see what I mean like that first layer is the same and then you get these two different perspectives which in a different in this other layer clash but not in the first one.
And yes, what are the two that clash, what are they?
Well, one is that unity is is is pre human, so to say is like embedded in the universe, and we're remembering it, right. And the other one is that unity or the or divinity or love as I'm calling it.
But we're talking about the same force is does not exist prior to humans coming into consciousness as a collective, and then it gets birthed within that. So those would be the two.
Contradictions on one layer but again in the layer of actually bringing us together into experiencing this right which is aside from the theory that's what we want.
That's an amazing thing that we really want to happen and experience and there I think they're actually, they're the same like they collapse into the same. Yes, they don't.
They're not necessarily exclusive.
Right. Yeah, they don't have to conflict.
Unless we have a reason to insist on.
No, I really mean it right without the humans this straight up isn't happening.
And it's just what we mean by this.
Right.
And a moment.
Yeah, and so to get to talk about that the first layer where the where there's no potential conflict between those metaphysics.
It's, there's, there's, I'm going to bring in Satan here which is maybe like an elite.
Okay, you mentioned evil before and I think it is important to feel the, the energies of resistance viscerally.
And like Satan isn't, you know, it's like kind of symbolic thing and evil is also maybe like symbolic concepts, but what they can get.
They can warp the actual thing they're taking literally.
But there is like on a moment to moment basis.
Like literally if you're just experiencing your existence on a moment to moment basis.
Like it's like there's a presence, there's the presence of some force, like this force of separation or the force of disembodiment or the there's there is a force there.
Well, or you could call it the thrifts or whatever but the name doesn't really matter.
And it's, it has an aggression to it.
And it's non theoretical right like that I feel like that's the big thing is, it took me a long time to realize that it wasn't like, now I am talking about it.
Now I am dealing with it, you know, now I'm in a therapy session or whatever like now I'm at a workshop, and now I'm sitting learning about it.
Now I'm eating food so it's not an issue or something, you know, like this compartmentalization to switch from that to be like oh it's actually at all times present and active.
I am at all times also in different ways present and active, trying to excavate the open space to connect to unity or to connect to, to love and that's like that's always going on.
Often strangely and like unexpectedly, like it's not doesn't follow like a five step process or something or it happens suddenly and like, you know, it's changes forms.
For me that's the key kind of change of perspective or way of working with unity or God or love is that even in this conversation right now like in ways that we don't understand, and, or maybe slightly
understand, but for sure many ways we don't in each of us and in the conversation and in the listeners, all kinds of things are happening in real time, where this these two things are in all kinds of ways, and all these different layers.
And again, in some ways that we don't understand or can even perceive.
And I think realizing that like really changes the feeling of how one interacts with it like it's no longer about a symbolic system or subscribing to this method or let me try this system or you know any of that it's on a moment to moment
basis like if I tune in and resonate to like the little slivers I can feel or the large slivers I can feel depending on the moment of this feeling of unity, feeling of love God, as well as these feelings of like trying to disembodied me or trying to, you know,
make me do something that I that from a really deep like abdominal level I don't want to do.
But I'm doing it somehow you know, like that and really tuning into that and making it like an automatic intuitive process, which takes some time you know like at first it takes effort and then it's gradually gets more intuitive to be tuned into that, even when it's very different
like it feels, it's like you're almost in a different structure from what you're being told is happening, and really tuning into that on a moment to moment basis, and then coming together with other people like we're doing here.
And just existing in the space that that is of being in that space of these forces at all times existing in different ways and kind of figuring out ways to through language.
And then we have that be able to create a way that these forces which inside of us the force of unity or love if it's just one person.
I feel like it doesn't, it's, we're too weak on our own to like to fight this, you know, these other forces.
But once you create resonance with different people in strange sometimes in strange ways, you know, then that's an attuning to when it happens and the space for it to spontaneity to create it.
And then it builds from there and and loose from any like systems or new religions or like workshops or any of that is also helpful but the key is on a moment to moment basis like just attuning to that.
And then, yeah, just getting it, you know, feeling it.
So, say more about giving birth to the emergent God.
What do you mean, what does that mean for you.
What are the slivers of feeling love feeling divinity feeling unity.
I'm going to keep saying all three because it's important to not name it because it's not a name of thing right so it's going to keep saying those three to be like it's, it's all a none of those.
That is felt in slivers like as we go through life, you know, some sporadically or you know some people like have a really good connection to it.
But no one has like a perfect connection or anywhere close to it as far as I have experienced, except maybe some rare people you know but it on an individual level it's not enough to, to like solidify and be like a way of being,
and have the space to create something like it's, we're living our lives and then it's a sliver, and then we go back to living our lives and it's a thicker sliver, maybe a little bit of transformation but it's, it doesn't like, whoosh, you know, it doesn't do that.
And so birthing is somehow coming to not coming together in like the cliche way of, you know, we're going to live together in an eco village or, you know, we're going to, we're going to chance or something that can be really helpful.
But that's not, I mean more like in this moment to moment basis, like wherever you are, whoever you're with, just attuning to the very small post like the very small channels, or big channels, smaller big, whatever, whatever they are as they are in that moment,
the channels of, of connecting within that space of love and enabling it to get a little bit bigger and create a little bit more space.
And then as that as that space emerges then, you know, there's more and more of a like a resonance and waves start happening.
Like explicit structures like people living together but it could literally happen with no change in people's daily lives at the beginning.
No substantial change, but, but with the waves gradually there's the space for, for it to be an actual stable thing. So it's not just slivers happening spontaneously and we don't really know when they're going to come.
You know, and there's like a thousand different practices one can do to improve that, but none of them really like they don't.
I mean there's some reason why nothing like this or nothing much like it commonly takes place or is sustained.
And I think one of the reasons is that it tends to become structural and systematized.
Exactly. That's why it's so important not to start to systematize it in the beginning. Yeah, that's that that thanks for saying that.
