That's a key thing of what I'm trying to get at is that I find it ironic when people.
Oh, I'm sorry, please continue.
I was just saying that as soon as you systematize it like prematurely, it loses the, the like the personal energy that is needed for it to not be sucked into a thrift begin.
Yes. Yes, yes, it's always confusing to me when people approach the divine according to rules.
Right. Yeah, I understand like I get the idea, you know, but it's, it seems very
tragic, confusing, symptomatic of a problem.
It's almost like, I mean, I'm really curious about the entire history of the development of human cognition, right? So there are a few uncommon books that are sort of about
or actually are about the evolution of human consciousness or, you know, I think consciousness is the right word.
And these, these are books like Julian James, the, the origin of consciousness and the breakdown of the bicameral mind.
You know, Snell wrote a book called discovery of the mind I think
there's a book by Owen Barfield called saving the appearances study and idolatry
and a book by Ernst Costa Ray called language and myth.
And these books each have sort of a unique perspective on, you know,
how our minds developed over long periods of time, mostly, you know, reasonably modern.
And I guess the reason I'm mentioning this is
it turns out that there are, there are root concepts in any language that are fundamental to what it is possible to think, right?
The more damaged these root concepts become the more artifacted they become or the more abstract they become.
The more difficult it is to have anything resembling lucid intelligence.
And these are basic concepts like world food, dream, mother, hand, I, you know, very stuff tree, right stuff that's, it's nothing exotic.
It's just that if you get one of those concepts wrong, the error gets transmitted to the whole ring of root concepts, right?
And this is what the thrifts actually do is they artifact the root concepts.
They amputate important dimensionality from it, so that you have a problem where, you know, people think of a tree, they think like, oh, it's a vegetable and you get wood from it.
Whereas an indigenous person would be like, oh, it's my family, my grandmother, it's also a doorway to another world.
You can go to any other tree, it's my friend, you know, it's a non-ordinary being that lives in my dreaming, this kind of thing, right?
You can see the radical difference in these two, the same root, right, tree, yeah.
But one has like nothing associated with it except dead abstractions.
And the other has all these relational, you know, inputs, you know, and transports.
Well, they're not just dead abstractions, they're destructive forces, I would say.
Yeah, okay, we agree.
Destruction, or say it's not a passive, you know, whittling down, it's replacing the richer one with an actively destructive one.
So it's even worse than just getting rid of the good stuff.
Yes, yes.
The thing I wanted to just emphasize was like, science is fascinating, and I've been a fan of science my whole life, but it also damages these root elements very severely, because it casts them in a certain kind of mechanical light.
And once that's done, it's very difficult to get any of the natural dimensionality back into play.
Let us pause here for a moment.
And can you stand by briefly while I process this recording?
Sure, can I just say one real quick thing?
Absolutely, three minutes.
Yeah, that's perfectly enough time.
Just a quick thing, because you said with the tree and the grandfather, that just remind me of a shrooms trip I had once with a friend of mine.
In San Francisco, actually, in the hills of Berkeley.
In among the redwoods.
And then I was connecting to the redwoods as grandmother spirits.
Unexpectedly, it's not like I went in with this plant, but it was twilight and then it was getting dark and the, I mean, wow.
The trees are just, they're so huge and old and static, not static, but like anchored, you know, rounded.
Stable.
Say that again?
They're very stable.
Stable, exactly.
Yeah, and so I like psychedelic.
I mean, the redwoods are really trippy because their bark absorbs sounds.
So they like literally make like a blank silence.
Their bark is kind of spongy and thick and blankety.
Please continue.
Yeah, wow, that explains a lot actually.
There's some feeling in redwood forests, you know, that's different.
Very, very different, yes.
But the thing I wanted to say with this is the power of psychedelics to break this language issue, but also the danger.
Like it's not like, oh, I'll take psychedelics and my language will magically thicken again.
It's, well, we don't have time to get into it in these last few minutes, but.
Well, we can come back to that.
Yeah, I guess it seems important because I feel like more and more psychedelics are.
They're becoming mechanical actually in some ways, which is.
Yes, they're getting captured by the thrifts capture everything.
Right, exactly.
The thrifts per capturing.
And so maybe let's start with that.
Okay.
Right, give me a few moments for this to process.
Yeah, maybe back in just a minute or two.
Well, probably more like five.
