recognize it directly, those image banks can get them killed. They can destroy their lives. They
can get their children killed. The time that we spend attending images, serving these banks of
thousands of images or hundreds of images that we've made, worrying about them, attending them,
liking them, transmitting them, backing them up, tracking them, studying them as a species, right?
We're doing this huge thing. And then we've got like the NSA, which now has to track and store and
also examine every single image for evidence of code inclusion by quote-unquote terrorists.
There's a mode called steganography where you include information inside images.
And then so images are just getting poured into the electronic data space in an unthinkable rate.
We've got billions of people photographing constantly. I don't, I have no idea how to even
hope to calculate the number of images we're generating per day, but I know some very basic
things about humans. We become really very attached to our collections. And I've had
people spend incredible amounts of money to protect or restore data collections
where right next to them a living being is dying and they're not doing anything about that.
Or a living being is suffering or is deprived of attention, food, care, love, joy, hope,
their own assets or is enslaved. But the, and our image banks are getting well attended,
believe me. We are giving them everything they need to grow and prosper while our,
I'm sorry, but our children, our nation, our environment and our intelligence
are being laid waste to the things we are photographing are being destroyed by photographing
them. And this is part of what I've been desperate to talk about and get people to start thinking
about. Again, I don't want us to stop having photography. I don't want to say photography is
evil or anything like that. We're going with language is the same kind of problem. We've got
desperate problems with how we relate with language. We can't get rid of it. We've got it's,
it is absolutely incumbent upon us to discover the dangers and also the hidden opportunities
that arise if we address those dangers. That's what really what my goal is here. Not to necessarily
vilify image making, but we do need to realize that again, our imaginations are delicate,
they need nurturance, not a pounding. And that nurturance involves the elicitation
and development of their myriad faculties, some of which are so astonishing that they would destroy
our culture, our religion and our science. That's why I'm really concerned. The other reason I'm
concerned is we have to store and transmit all these images and videos and all of that stuff.
And that takes electricity. Now, moving electricity costs living beings, all kinds of them humans,
it costs forests, it costs the oceans, it costs everything. Electricity isn't free. And we think
that because all these electronic images are stored somewhere in the cloud or on hard drives in
farms somewhere far away from us, that no damage is done by them. There's no cost to store or
transmit them. We're dead wrong about that. In fact, as billions of people or millions of people
pour images into the electronic data space daily and share them, we're creating
an incredibly gigantic data store and movement problem that takes lots and lots of energy every
day, which means living things die every day. And we don't know what ones, because we're not doing
any of the accounting, we're just pouring images into the internet and really enjoying this a lot
and liking them. Now, I make images too, as I may have mentioned, or if I didn't, both of my parents
were involved in image making when I was a child. And I'm fascinated with all forms of
image making. You know, one of the more interesting things that happened to me around images was I
once had the privilege of working in a very high end photographic gallery where images
costing tens, hundreds of or thousands or sometimes millions of dollars were being sold.
I want you to think about that. A photograph on a piece of paper worth $500,000.
And it really is just a print of a negative made by a single person who happens to be famous.
And this gallery sold millions of dollars worth of artwork every year.
And whenever there, I was actually a technical consultant there. I repaired their computer
networks. Whenever there, I was surrounded by incredible, incredibly expensive photographs,
photographs, a photograph worth $100,000. If I was dying outside in the street, that photograph
would be preserved and I would be allowed to die. If your child was, it was your child,
be allowed to die, photograph be preserved. We live in a world like this, but it's becoming
more like this now because we're spending not just the money, but the attention,
so much attention and not just the attention, but the storage and the energy and not just one time.
So when you, when you post a photograph, it gets that thing, if that, if it gets transmitted,
if it's all popular, it's going to have a very serious cost in terms of lives over its lifetime,
especially as it gets transmitted, backed up, viewed millions of times, liked, attended.
We have no idea what the effect of such a thing is and we've never even stopped to look,
we need to stop and look now because the, just if we, if we only look at the electricity required
to store backup, transmit and attend all of the photographs that we're making
and sharing just the energy necessary to do that. We need to ask what dies for that to happen,
how many lives are lost per hour per photograph over time because that number is apparently
growing over time, not shrinking and it's growing in magnitudes quickly. So not, it's not growing
in a linear progression, it's growing in a geometric progression like two, four, six, eight,
16, 32, 64. And that progression is speeding up rather than slowing down.
So we need to examine this urgently because we're wiping out the beautiful things we're
photographing by photographing them and no one is aware of this. And some of those living things
that we adore and think it's great to share images of are dying because we're sharing images.
I don't think we would do that. And we're also kind of dying inside because our imaginations
are being damaged and they're being trained to be to the position of a consumer,
which is the wrong position for our imaginations. There are problems with language and writing,
but at least they invoke our personal image making capacities and these grow dramatically with use
and as they grow, faculties of intelligence and relation come with them naturally. So without
these things, we're really hobbled, we're crippled socially, we're crippled creatively,
we're going to have a hard time discovering who we are, what we are, how we came to be here because
the imagination is absolutely central to all of that. But moreover, we can't photograph everything
we shop for. We can't make millions of tiny little objects that are competing with us for
survival and then photograph those and have to compete against the photographs as well.
Nothing will survive that. In case it's not obvious, that's exactly what we're doing. You
and me, nature, our children, our elders, everything we have lived and hoped for are now competing
against photographs for survival and development and they are losing. They're losing. We haven't
even noticed. We're not even paying attention. We just keep snapping away. It's so empowering to see
those images popping up in your cue, you know, or in your newsfeed to show the badge, you know,
to the world of who you are, what you saw, what you ate, what you bought, what you think is beautiful.
But what about the cost, you know, and what's happening to our communication skills
as we stop writing and stop speaking and we're just sending each other images. What's going on there?
These are questions we need to examine together now because I think it's important at this point
in our history where we stand at the precipice of a variety of irrecoverable disasters,
ecologically, relationally, intellectually,
that we stop and question how we got here and rather than just forging ahead madly,
we take a moment to pause, think, rethink, reforge.
What we're doing, why we're doing it? It's time that we together reach for something more like
intelligence than photograph, more like transcendence than recording, more like mutuality than a museum.
That's my invitation to you. Thank you for joining me. I look forward to learning together now
and in the future with and for each other in our world.
