If it isn't defeated, it will change the face of science as far as I can see
from my current understandings of it.
So for example, there's a degree of demonstrable complexity in a system
that is demonstrative of the activity, interference, or origination by an intelligent being or system.
In a sense,
here we might find proof of God, but we might also be able to just look
at nearly anything in the universe and look, God is in quotes. I think it's my perspective that
time space itself is, while not being fundamental, something productive of time space,
it is the result of a transcendent,
a layered array of transcendences in nature, in existence.
So assembly theory may give us the ability to empirically determine
whether it is possible
for most of what exists or any specific element
to have originated without the interference or creative engagement
of some intelligence or transcendence.
Now I may be misunderstanding that, but from what I can tell from what I heard,
there's a specific sort of cutoff point in the assembly index or the causal graph of an object
that is determinate, empirically determinate of whether or not it could
have come into existence without being purposefully or
or purposefully or tangentially resulting from purposeful activity.
And there may be some overlap here with other ideas. For example,
Cronin sneers at Scheldrake's morphogenesis, and yet there seems to be some
conceptual overlap. It may be very minimal, but there seems to be some conceptual overlap
between assembly theory and Scheldrake's concepts to me.
Because it may well turn out, for example, that in a given possibility space,
once you assemble the first salt crystal locally, it now becomes easy to, in Cronin's language,
teleport the properties to other objects. And that resembles the results of
Scheldrake's theory of morphogenesis.
So there's much more to learn here. I'm going to be spending some time digesting
more about assembly theory, and I encourage those of you who are interested to explore it.
It looks either it's going to get defeated completely, in which case it will produce no
useful results, which seems impossible to me, by the way, or it will get partially defeated in that
it is not, its scope will undergo radical limitation, or we have a new way of understanding
objects, identity, interactions, and historical development of such matters.
And it looks pretty likely that that's what's actually going to happen so far. So
thank you all for joining me. I look forward to learning and growing and seeing better together.
Again, sometime in the very near future, may your ways and lives be beautiful,
blessed, insightful, playful, and joyful. Bye-bye for now.
