technological development, which looks to me lethal to both humans and the history and future
of life on earth. And whether or not it completely obliterates life on earth
sort of doesn't matter, right? If I murder your entire family and one of your children
manages somehow to survive,
this doesn't validate my murder or the murder of the entire family.
I guess there was some Russian royal family that was essentially
captured up, taken somewhere and just executed. I can't remember who the Romanovs may be.
And the fact that some janitor
survived in no way reduces the atrocity index of the slaughter of the family
and their children and everybody. And I think it's funny that we, it's natural,
but it's also peculiar that we pretend that, well, it's relatively okay to kill the adults.
They, they had some life, just don't kill the children and keep some women around.
That's in, you know, that kind of moral relativism doesn't fly well with me. I think all of the
beings, all of the adults, arch still children too. There's very few, if any,
statuses that ameliorate the moral or ethical imperatives that orbit do not kill
and especially do not murder, do not slaughter.
So back to assembly theory.
So there are two particular forms of data that, and by the way, I deeply encourage you to listen
to Lee Cronin describing the origins and publication of the assembly theory paper.
I may be able to produce a link in the description later.
But the two primary forms of data that emerge that I, that I understand to some degree at this point
are what's called the assembly index, which is a measure of the necessary extant complexity
required for an object to become possible in the universe. Now that, by the way, Cronin says that
time turns out to be fundamental to anything relating to analyzing objects. And I agree with him
that at least through the lens of assembly theory and a number of lenses familiar and preferable to me,
time is something far different from tick tock, tick tock, tick tock.
In fact, organisms and their relationships create modes of time. I refer to these as
temporal hyper, biorelational hyper structures or biotemporal hyper structures. And when idiots,
or when people make idiotic statements, and I've heard both Neil deGrasse Tyson
and Sabine Hossenfelder, I'm not sure if I got her last name right,
make bold and idiotic claims such as,
there's no reason for aliens to travel, you know, millions of light years, thousands of light years
to visit the earth because humans are boring. That is the epitome,
hi, nice to see you. That is the epitome of egoic anthropocentric stupidity,
in my view. And maybe they're stirring the pot, right? Maybe they're trying to,
they're just trying to produce trigger bait. But the earth
is a vast library of biorelational hyper structures. These must be incredibly rare
in time space by volume, even if they are common in number, right? Even if there are billions
of living worlds as complex as ours, as stable as ours, stable enough to produce hands,
eyes, wings, tentacles, minds, so forth, embodied minds.
Those things are not merely interesting. They are producing modes of time space that if you,
it's like looking for diamonds or looking for gold, right? Walk all over the place,
you'll find nearly no gold. In the entire history of me walking around on the earth,
the only diamonds I've seen are on women's fingers, generally, or men's. Or unfortunately,
in the latter part of my life, inside people's teeth, come on people. Are you guys nuts?
Apparently. So yeah, living worlds produce forms of biotemporal complexity
that are unimaginably uncommon in time space, even if there are lots of them. And each one of them
will have incredibly unique features. So for shame, Tyson, you are acting the public idiot here
in an anthropocentric and egoic way that is truly embarrassing, not just to you, but to the idea
that you're a scientist. And similarly, Sabine, what the hell are you thinking? You think the humans
are the only reason to visit earth? I mean, as a human, are you only interested in the humans?
The fuck are you thinking? And again, maybe these people are just trying to produce trigger bait.
They certainly succeeded in my case. Because honestly,
if I was capable of publicly slapping them in the face for such a comment,
I might be willing to descend to that.
Yeah, I find that just ridiculous. And it does stir me up if I'm willing to be stirred up that way.
So the two concepts in assembly theory are the assembly index of an object,
which is an empirical measure of, it's like a graph, I guess, or there's actually a second concept,
which is the causal graph. And I think I sort of understand the assembly index
as a measure of the complexity necessary in the temporal historical context of the universe
to produce for an object to be constructed somehow. And then the causal graph is a bit more obscure
Let me see if I can find the definition for that.
I suppose the causal graph is a way of encoding
propositions about the paths of origination of an object. Now again, assembly theory is very new.
A lot of scientists are quite upset about its existence.
I mean, there's a vast population of haters already for this theory, because it,
in some senses, if properly validated,
it might comprise a super science, something that steals the foundations
from many other branches of research. It just captures those foundations.
And it's very early days. There remains a great deal of work to do.
However, one problem with
sir, your dog, it's having trouble. It has, yeah, there you go.
Yeah, it was just walking funny because it was trying to
So whether or not assembly theory is validated, it's already producing
uncommonly useful results.
And in listening to cronin,
I've spent some time listening to intelligent humans, and particularly intelligent males.
I guess just because the media puts more of them in front of me, generally speaking.
However, Sarah Walker is a wonderful example of an absolutely brilliant intellectual female.
I'm not even sure if I'm allowed to use explicit gender terms in 2024.
I may, I may end up canceled or beheaded for having done so.
But yeah, Lee is one of the most intelligent minds I've ever had the pleasure of listening to.
This doesn't mean that I agree with everything he says or believes.
And in fact, one of the reasons I find him intelligent is you will very commonly hear him say,
I've just changed my mind about this. This is something I've nearly never heard out of the
mouths of anyone. And even in the interview with Lex Fridman, where he and Sarah Walker,
you know, the interview is ostensibly about aliens. There's, I don't know,
like eight minutes of talk about aliens in the interview, and it's four hours long,
which is awesome. As most of you know, I'm down with long form. Let's do it long form, you know.
Let's have the foreplay for hours, and then, you know, all the other stuff, and then the meal,
and then the bath, and then, you know, the dreaming, and then, yeah, everything. Let's have it all.
Of course, I'm not getting any of that stuff. That's all pure fantasy at this,
in my present circumstances. And has long been that way. Maybe that's why I'm,
maybe that's why I have changed my perspective. But my point was just that,
yeah, I can see if you can give Lee an argument that allows him to visualize, particularly
to visualize experiments that can be done to determine, qualitatively, quantitatively,
empirically, ideologically, the validity of an argument, or the power of an argument,
the conclusiveness of an argument. He will immediately change his mind if he can see
and understand the structure. And I've rarely seen this quality. I'm not sure I have it.
I am very, I'm very likely to be committed to my pet theories. And I encounter so few
intelligent people to explore with that it's uncommon for me to
be presented with something I find.
Wow, coughing child, death knell. The child will probably survive.
But who else will?
Yeah, I just don't, I don't encounter anyone intelligent enough, or motivated to push against
commonly. There are, there are a few such people in my circle.
Hmm.
The most profound tree that I know is in this little part of the garden.
I'm going to pause for a moment. I hope I will return.
So I've noticed that some one, I can't recall the guy's name, just saw it briefly,
has published an essay on medium called The Eight Fallacies of Assembly Theory.
Definitely people are going to be highly motivated to attack this thing,
which is probably good. I mean, I think Cronin himself and Sarah Walker would,
and they have other associates, Sharma at all. You can see their team on the primary paper.
So the thing is going to undergo a radical evolutionary process by furious objection.
People are going to be very highly motivated to attack this thing, primarily because
if it turns out to be valid or useful, which it seems extremely likely
to be profoundly useful in the sense that
it gives us ways to detect the existence of stuff that we've never been able to see before, like
it's not merely a new language.
It's a new method of considering the nature of identity, what things are.
And this is incredibly provocative and profound.
I mean, literally my mind is so blown by what I've heard from Cronin
that I mean, one analogy would be
if
so in some ways, as someone who has reason to suspect that I've had
long-term contact over some interval of my life with a non-human intelligence of extremely exotic
and profound nature and ability. It's not just similar to someone who says,
you know, not only did one day out in the field at night, my family and I encountered
what appeared to us to be a vehicle from time space.
But they took me with them in
their vehicle and they taught me some of their ways of knowing
right over many months and showed me
how they perceive the universe, organisms, time space, all these things. So in a sense,
compared to the minds of common others around me,
my mind is a bit like a UFO landing in their backyard
because I'm attempting to convey some of the things that I, some of the perspectives and
orientations that I have acquired over my lifetime, but particularly during my contact
experience. And there's lots of different ways to conceive of that experience other than
the contact with a non-human intelligence, though I would argue that most of what's
going on is precisely that because nature is a non-human intelligence of unimaginable sophistication.
You know, a library of such intelligences that upscale form a unity. And by the way,
it looks like a assembly theory might allow,
might endow the possibility of proving empirically
that the earth and the biosphere comprise a unity, an accessible to humans' unity.
And many other things that are important, philosophically, ethically, morally,
and intellectually to me, perhaps even spiritually. I will admit that I associate my
biofilia, my adoration of living beings and their relationships and origins,
that does feel to me like a spiritual faculty,
or an expression of my soul, of the nature of my soul, which I imagine is a much more
complex entity than is commonly supposed. Yeah, that thing's got a lot of different
features depending on how and why we may be referring to it in language or making models
in language concepts and so on. I'm going to pause for a bit because I'm coming to a place
of a lot of noise. With luck, I will return shortly. So I hope in the future to be able to produce
a concise
description of assembly theory
and its primary propositions.
But it looks like we may get a grasp on an entirely new form of knowledge
with the power to produce otherwise impossible insights about a broad array of features of
biology and particularly some of the most confusing problems
in science is concerned with origin of life.
I have recently been listening to some debates on this topic and they are profoundly contentious
primarily because
the common models
in play in biology are ridiculous
and avoid nearly all of the fundamental questions necessary
to produce reasonable scientific arguments.
So assembly theory may give us
both a foundation for reasonable arguments and a path to evaluate them in the laboratory.
Right?
Cronin has a variety of radical and I think trustworthy ideas
about what we might do
to
produce both the precursors and perhaps actual life in the lab.
Again for my view, Lee if he's correct and his team and Sarah and her team
or their teams are giving the humans again something very likely to produce
incredibly lethal technologies.
Scientists often
inhabit the role of the villain in Frederick Brown's story The Weapon
in which a journalist comes to visit a scientist who is about to give the humans
something similarly deadly to nuclear weapons. The journalist argues against this.
The scientist just says, you know, it's not my job to determine whether or not something
should be done. My job is to do what can be done. I can do this. I'm going to do it.
It turns out that the scientist has a developmentally
inhibited child.
I'm not sure what the right nomenclature for that is these days.
A child who is 12 that has the mental age of that might be associated with a three-year-old
and the journalist manages to give the child a loaded gun
surreptitiously which the scientist later finds him with in his bed.
It's a powerful refutation of the argument. We should do what we can. Whatever can be done
should be done.
No, absolutely it should not be done. There are all kinds of things we can't do that we must
never do. In fact, it turns out that much of what is productive and
supportive and crucial to what I mean when I use the word intelligence,
much of that is prohibitive. It's what must not be done for it to continue to be possible
for us to be intelligent
or to exist at all. Obviously, if you're not existing, you can't be intelligent anymore.
I hope to return with a more educated perspective on assembly theory, but I want to encourage my
listeners to explore it because honestly, it looks like a discovery with the potential
to have more impact than relativity did or at least a discovery of a similar degree of impact.
