Hello everybody. Welcome. So part of how I learn, I'm sorry to say, is by being intellectually
impetuous, precocious, and naive. And what that usually turns out to mean, or what that
commonly often turns out to mean, is that I'm going to make bold mistakes in my first
essays of an idea that will sort of fertilize the garden of my mind if I'm lucky. If I'm
unlucky, those bold mistakes become doctrine, dogma, or my pet theory. And that happens too.
This is part of the danger of trying to chase insight alone, right? So that I don't have to
fight anyone powerful who's got an objection or a contrary perspective. This is part of why
I've been willing to put up with my scientist friend Kevin for 15 years or something, 20 years,
because he only fights me. He nearly never agrees with anything I've thought, believed,
perceived, and so forth. And he's very adept in the intellectual confines of argument or debate.
I wonder if we'll hear some coyotes because of the siren. Sorry about that devastating
oral attack. I suppose I could edit it out, but it seems useful. I'm seeing something really
interesting here. Okay, so there's a there's a three pronged pine needle floating in midair,
and moving around on the breeze. And the closest branch it could be connected to is probably a
minimum of 15 feet away. And the branch it's probably connected to is 20, 25 feet away. Oh shit.
Oh yeah, there it is. Wow. Okay, so oh, huh. All right, this is even weirder than I thought.
Because the branch it actually appears to be connected to is not above it. That's funny.
Maybe a friend just flew right past my face to wake me up to the fact that it's here.
All right, so what's actually going on isn't what is apparent. And this is the problem with ideas.
It certainly looked, I'm gonna have to test this, which is sort of frightening because I don't want
to change. I want to understand something about the situation without modifying the situation.
And this is the problem with knowledge and perspective is that often it is impossible to
determine what is the case without so severely disturbing the case quote unquote,
that we cannot, our first moves wrong foot us for all future moves. So I'm trying to understand
this what I'm looking at, which is a triad of dry pine needles floating apparently floating in the
atmosphere. And what I'm trying to understand is, and it seems very unlikely that this is the case,
but it is possible. Because spiders are crazy, amazing in their abilities to forge what I call
anchor strands for webs. And that's what this is is a spider kite. It's an anchor strand kite.
So a spider at some point in very recent history has attached a web.
And originally, I thought the web that was attached was from the kite up.
But I can see that there's a web from the kite sideways. What I can't tell is if there are two
webs, because the kite is behaving as if there are two. And I don't really want to disturb it.
But I'm going to try to determine the movement of the kite
is so counterintuitive.
I can't understand what is lofting the kite. If the only web is to the side,
because when the wind is reduced, the kite should fall. And it does fall some, but not enough.
And so it appears when I'm looking at it just doesn't seem possible, but it is.
I don't think there's a second strand attached above it. But the way the kite is flying,
it appears that there would have to be two strands. I don't think there is. I tried to test it.
Again, the problem with something this delicate, well, first of all,
it might be safer to test than I thought, because it's most likely that the web strand
is not sticky. Ah, okay, I've just figured it out. There are two strands. One is invisible.
Okay, that makes sense. Now the behavior of the kite makes sense. I cannot see the second strand,
but I could interfere with it. Wow. So now,
now I really don't understand how the object was formed, because I can understand the spider
attaching. Ah, there's the second strand. I can see it now. But from the opposite angle,
I can see it. Okay, and both of them go to the side. But what I can't understand,
what seems impossible to me, is how the spider got this kite in the middle of what appears to be
two strands. Yeah, no idea. It just seems impossible. I can imagine the spider attaching the kite,
you know, dumping the strand from a high branch. I have no idea how the kite could be in the middle
of two strands. No idea. I'm going to take a picture of this just for kicks, so I'm going to,
oh wait, I can take a picture without stopping the recording.
Huh, effectively invisible in the photograph.
Very blurry in that one.
A little, yeah, useless. All right.
Forgive my throat clearing.
Yeah, it seems impossible. I'm looking at it. I'm sure there was a method that produced this
seemingly absurd impossibility.
And I've seen stuff like this before. Spider kites are amazing.
And if you actually look at large webs, particularly those of orb weavers,
and it turns out that this topic is covalent
to the topic I'm going to stumble into with great impetuous ignorance in a little bit,
um, if you look at the large webs, particularly of orb weavers,
and you actually try to understand,
it's not too hard to understand how the web is constructed
once the anchor strands are in place. But if you try to understand how the anchor strands were forged,
whoo, good luck. You're going to have to see it happen or, you know, have an entomologist.
I don't know if there are arachnologists, there probably are, study arachnids.
But yeah, you're going to have to have someone explain it to you.
And until you actually see it happen, if you carefully think about the web and you look at it,
it's going to look impossible to produce many of the anchor strands,
and especially to connect them at tension in the center of the web.
And this turns out to be
correlated with the topic that I intend to pursue here, as soon as I manage to effectively
clear my throat, which I will not do in your ear.
Let's see. Okay.
So,
I think before I even get to the topic, I'm going to talk about the web some more.
The world line of an organism
can be imagined as the size, shape, spacetime tunnel
that an organism traverses during its lifetime.
Now, it should be obvious that the world lines of other similar organisms
are productive of the world line of a single organism, i.e., a human baby has two parents,
two immediate parents.
It's unclear. There's a problem with trying to compute the number of progenitors of a human,
because there's a problem where, and even the common answers to the problem don't actually
solve the problem. As far as I understand it, I'd love to be corrected about that,
because this is something that has bothered me for a long time. It looks like,
as you go backward in time with two ancestors, you know, my dad had two ancestors,
my mom had two ancestors, so that's four. They each had two ancestors, so that's eight.
Sixteen, et cetera. You have the chessboard problem of one grain of sand on each, you know,
N plus one grains of rice on each. Is that it? Is it N plus one? No, you double the grains of rice,
so it's N to the X, N to the 1, 2, 3, 4 powers as you traverse the chessboard.
Long time ago some, it is claimed. Some astute mathematician was offered a reward by a king or
queen for having solved the problem, and they requested one grain of rice on the first square
of a chessboard, two on the next, four on the next, and so forth. At first glance, this looks
like a paltry sum, but if you understand the nature of powers, you realize that on the final
square you'll have, I don't know, more of grains of rice than there are on earth or something,
a ridiculously large amount of grain of rice. So organisms have a world line, and for the purposes
of our discussion, and I may even be misunderstanding the world line, because I often do misunderstand
complex principles from science, not having had to mathematically validate them myself.
So I can have a naive understanding of things, and it's not uncommon for me to do so.
It is uncommon for me to notice in real time that my understanding is or is likely naive,
but, okay, where am I going here? So imagine
that an ovum in my mother's womb has a world line, and it is the size and shape of an ovum,
and it is traveling inside my mother's womb, so it's tracing. Imagine that we light it up and we
make a tracer backward and forward in time. It appears sometime during or after her embryo
genesis, probably after, I would guess. There's a light, and it's the size of an ovum,
and it makes a tunnel as it travels through time, and then eventually it meets another light,
the size of a sperm, which has been doing some traveling in my father's testicles,
and it meets these two lights that make a tunneled shape, a tunnel of their shape
in time space, right? So wherever my mom goes on the surface of the earth, that changes the tunnel's
trajectories. The earth is spinning, so that changes the trajectories. The earth is orbiting
the sun, so we're going to follow it inside my dad's body on the surface of the earth,
around the surface of the earth's spin, around the earth's orbit of the sun, and then around the sun's
orbit in the galaxy, and then around the galaxy's orbit, orbits, or movements in the universe,
and you'll get exactly one tunnel, sperm size shaped, and ovum size shaped, and then these two
meet, and my world line begins there. So at first I am the size of an ovum with an embedded sperm head
in it, and then it becomes a multicellular blastocyst, and so forth, and becomes Darren.
So first I'm baby-shaped, and my world line is baby-shaped and sized, and then as I get older,
it gets bigger and more complex, more numbers of cells, and actually each of those cells has a
world line, each of the bacteria in me, each of the viruses, so I'm kind of a galaxy of world lines
if we're taking my components. Okay, so why am I saying all this? Because the spider is insanely
brilliant. What the spider does with its own body, with no, no, with no artificial technology,
the spider extends its world line so that in time space the world line of the spider is always
extended by any web it is presently occupying or connected to, and that means that the world line
the world line of a spider has a secondary element, the web, and the web is literally
at least where the web is not. Spiders do all kinds of things with webs, they don't just make
they don't just make the webs the capture webs, they also make various kinds of travel webs,
and they probably make and discard webs as they're attempting to forge a capture web.
All right, so
the world line of a spider
has two components at minimum,
the spider and the web. Now notice that what the web does is it literally filters time space
to capture the world lines of other insects
which it then consumes.
It probably doesn't consume all of the insects that intersect with its web,
but the spider has two world lines, the spider-shaped one extended by the web-shaped one.
And that's pretty astonishing.
Okay, so here comes the more complicated thing.
The spider web
is an object with an organismal origin.
There's no chance you will encounter one
that has neither an organismal origin nor a mechanical origin.
And a mechanical origin in the way that I'm going to use this word
has an organismal origin because it means something built robots to build spider webs.
Now I differ with many scientists,
particularly Lex Fridman,
in that
I have a limited definition of the word machine.
And because I haven't had to refine it in careful argument, it's probably fairly clumsy.
But it goes something like
a non-organic tool or device forged by humans.
Many scientists, particularly physicists and neuroscientists,
I think they're making a monumental category error
when they claim
that organisms and biologies are machines, that neurons are machines.
Now I understand something of how they come to that,
but the humans have a problem in which we transfer, we, devastatingly ignorantly,
we transfer metaphors from technology back onto organisms.
Thus we say, for example, your heart is a pump, your lungs are bellows.
Both of these things are impossible, formally impossible.
You will not have ideas without your heart, right?
There will be no arguments, no science, no religion, no nothing.
There is no pump that produces such effects in time space.
There is no pump that causes ideas, although
large language models, some might argue, I think we're getting close, Darren, with LLMs.
But LLMs are built by humans, right?
So the humans exist in the causal chain of origination necessary to LLMs.
So LLMs don't just arise out of the nature of time space, you have to have,
apparently, you have to have humans on earth so far as we know.
All right, so
when I imagine organisms, when I think of organisms, I think of
unimaginable complexity, single cell, to simulate it properly at, say, the level of the atom,
to fully simulate it, would require much more than all the computation humans have ever done,
would require something like 400 million years of the fastest computer we have pinned
at its top operating capacity. The Fugaku, I think, is the name of that computer.
And again, I'd like to be corrected if I've got this wrong.
I think accurately simulating the, oh, by the way, that's accurately simulating
the activity of a cell over one second. Okay, so you're talking about
truly monumental in actions of intelligence and physical complexity.
And as we attempt to understand how best to simulate a cell,
our knowledge of the cell's complexity is increasing very rapidly. So
the thing that's increasing more rapidly
is the complexity we're facing, not our capacity to simulate it.
So when I think of organisms,
I think of living beings, we could call them systems, but I prefer to call them relationships,
or relational hyperstructures or biorelational hyperstructures. And by hyperstructures, I mean
a multi-dimensional structure that entangles and complexifies temporalities,
not just one temporality, webs of temporality.
So that is nothing like a machine. In fact, that might, if we were going to attempt to
define the opposite of a machine, organisms and minds would be likely candidates because
organisms, so far as we understand them, contribute to and sustain negentropic
relationships on the surface of living planets, whereas machines dump death into that system
in the form of entropy. So machines offload entropy into living systems, living systems
levitate, in a sense. If entropy is gravity, organisms are,
can be imagined as anti-gravity.
They do something that should be impossible, or that seems impossible at first glance,
and maybe there are biologists who can explain this in such a way as to satisfy
my troubled mind about this matter. Then correct me.
