I haven't seen evidence of negentropy in machines,
and on any planet where those begin to show up, where you have an organism complex enough to
produce mechanical objects. It looks to me like, unless that organism is vastly more intelligent
than humans, in terms of knowing what not to do with technology, you will get a dead world there
right quick, geologically speaking, a few thousand years at most.
So, unlike Lex Fridman and his ilk, who I respect and admire, and I want his voice at the table,
I just don't agree, and I love his podcasts. In fact, the reason I'm making this recording
is due to one of them. It's due to his podcast with Lee Cronin and Sarah Walker.
Who are producing theoretical children if they have not produced physical children.
I can't tell if they're a couple or not, and I haven't done the research to figure it out,
but listening to them part of me is just like, oh please let these two humans
mate and produce offspring. I've rarely felt that, though I did feel it with
Gene Wilder and Gilda Radner. They would have produced an offspring capable of just laying
waste to human consciousness with humor. It would have been like the atomic bomb of comedians.
So, Lex seems to think that if you get a complex enough machine, it's alive,
and if you build a robot, that's your baby. Thus, he projects his own essence into his
mechanical creations in a way that he defines as lifelike enough to qualify as life.
I think this is a ridiculous misapprehension of the nature of organisms, but again,
I'm excited. I would love to sit down and talk about this with him. Never happen. I'm a nobody.
Lex is famous. All right, so let me explain partly why I don't think machines
have the same mode of world line that organisms have.
It is that they cannot inherit or participate in directly the world line complexity of origination,
relation, heredity, and lineage that the simplest organism has more of than all the numbers you
could ever make. The simplest organism has an infinite historical relational web
of trillions of endless amounts of numbers of transformations and relationships per
instant, whatever interval you want, billionth of a second.
And so, in a sense, the organism's historical body is transcendentally vast and intimate,
and the transactions that the organism, that that body has participated in,
are monumentally vast and supportive generally of nearly all other organisms.
Machines, on the other hand, by existing end the world lines of organisms.
Many, many organisms must die to support the existence of any machine, at least around here.
And so machines look like, to me,
a sort of deadly plague for organisms, generally speaking. They look like the opposite of life.
They put an end to organismal lineages. Any automobile is a perfect example of this
that will kill nearly everything it touches, and many things it never touches. In the past,
and in the future. How does it kill things in the past by ending the lineages of living beings
today? That, effectively, can be understood to travel back in time and destroy the entire lineage
of relationships that produce and exist as, say, a duck run over by a car.
All right, so where am I going here?
Now, Lex seems to believe that what I will call simulacra are
as vital, as potent, as alive as organisms, particularly as we approach the churning limit
of our incapacity to distinguish them.
So, if I simulate a philodendron, and you can't tell the difference between that philodendron
and an actual philodendron, a living one, it inherits the property alive.
This is the argument for touring tests in artificial cognitive systems,
and I never bought it. I'm sure that Lex could table some very fierce objections to my objections.
I don't know what they are yet.
It has never seemed to me that if you can't tell the difference, they're the same thing. Sure,
they're the same thing in terms of the lexical category we are likely to use to refer to them,
and yes, if I'm looking at the plants I am walking past, and 87% of them are simulations,
and I am unaware of that, then they will seem to me to be plants, but if I discover,
okay, then it comes down to
is there any way to determine the distinction? Is there any way to notice the distinction,
to experimentally observe the distinction between a simulation and an organism?
And I will argue that I don't believe it's possible to produce simulations as complex as organisms
at all. There may be exceptions to this, and I'm open to changing my mind.
But to me, and one of the things I like about the topic that I'm going to start to blather on about
here is that it looks like we may have found a way to measure,
to reliably determine the developmental complexity of anything we may observe or interact with.
And this is an incredible thing. Now, it may turn out, this is early days for this theory,
it may turn out that the theory is falsifiable, or it may turn out that the theory becomes falsified,
is what I meant. It's incredibly bold, but of course, like any good scientist,
Lee Cronin and his teams, and Sarah Walker, and so forth,
who I imagine to be among the parents of assembly theory,
like any good scientist, if they're wrong,
and the theory is formally falsified somehow, we'll get smarter. So,
build the boat, float the boat, if it sinks, okay, we'll make better boats thereafter,
because of what we learned from this one that sank. But
the arguments and data, as I understand, the arguments and the arrangement,
arrangements of data that comprise assembly theory presently look
provocatively convincing. And this is where I'm going to get into trouble, and being naive and stupid,
because I've only just, I've only accidentally stumbled onto this topic
over the past few weeks. I've listened to a couple of long interviews with Lee Cronin.
I'm not mathematically sophisticated enough to understand it the way a scientist understands it.
I believe their paper on this theory
was published against all odds, right? I think it was published in nature.
And I heard the story of its publication, and I work in that field. I work in the field of
editing biomedical manuscripts for publication in what are referred to as high impact journals,
such as Nature Cell, so forth. So, let me see if I can encapsulate, meaningfully,
what I imagine to be the core positions of assembly theory is something like this.
Instead of proposing a new physics, assembly theory originating,
Lee Cronin, I believe is a chemist, assembly theory posits a new definition of objects.
And so, instead of positing that point particles, electrons, photons, etc., are fundamental,
it posits that objects are fundamental and provides a definition of objects.
By the way, I'm not reading this. I should be.
It provides a definition of objects based on their, on decomposing them and determining
the index of complexity required to produce the objects.
And this produces models such as causal graphs
that are empirical measurements of
historically, of timelines, of world lines, of objects,
that are determinative
and produce a metric for the complexity of any given object, say a molecule,
or an organism, or a machine.
And this discovery is absolutely mind-blowing.
The number of technologies and ways of knowing that are likely to emerge
quickly, if this theory is further validated, obviously it's fairly well validated to appear in nature,
are staggering.
But the thing that I find particularly surprising about it is that it will give us
an empirical measure of various features of organisms
that I argue it will give me a way to prove that machines can't participate.
In
how to put it.
It is as if there is a living water inside the organisms that is made of their origin
and lineage relationships that is carried forward in time and comprises a dimension of its own.
Not only do machines not participate in that specific dimension, they tend to tear it apart
and replace it with something that's dead inside, in my view.
And, you know, am I an ideologue about this?
Partly.
I certainly want to learn and be convinced otherwise, if
if that's the direction toward greater insight and intelligence.
I fiercely doubt it.
I am a biofile, not a technophile.
If you wanted to rip the entire history of life on earth to shreds,
all you have to do is give humans machines.
They don't have societies intelligent enough to survive that.
I would liken it to
finding a, okay this is a very abstract analogy, but imagine I have a two and a half year old male infant.
I abuse it in a variety of ways.
This is no, not suggesting we abuse infants here,
but I've used the infant in a variety of ways that make it very angry.
Stop feeding it, give it no attention, yell at it, whatever.
And then once it's thoroughly spun up,
I give it a thermos with no lid, and the thermos contains, I don't know,
molten steel, but it's so well insulated you can't tell it's hot on the outside.
And then I just give the infant the thermos and leave.
What is going to happen is going to be really bad for that infant.
And similarly, giving humans any kind of technology, this goes to my argument that
actually ethical scientists would nearly never publish.
Well that's not going to help the worm.
I'm not sure what to do about that poor creature.
Yeah, actually ethical scientists would nearly never publish because
there are no intelligent systems of humans competitive enough
to prevail against the lethally oriented organizations of humans
that will certainly end life on earth or, at the very least, produce an extinction event
of staggering scope. Some will argue, yes, extinction events are good.
By extinguishing vast rays of organisms previously, we ourselves arose.
Okay, great, but I'm actually concerned about the agently conserved ecologies.
Those things are rare.
And there's also a timeline. Just like a human being, a planet has a lifespan,
and as it gets nearer to the probable end of its lifespan,
the sudden effusive generation of new forms becomes less likely,
and the ability to sustain those forms over time becomes less likely.
In a sense, it looks to me like the earth is bio-evolutionarily old enough
that it has cancer, and the cancer on the earth is the appearance of machines.
Right, these are tumors. They are highly structured modes of time-space artificially
produced that kill everything so that they can be sustained and reproduced.
There's something similar in human cognition that I call thrips.
So I would argue that human cognition has become elderly in the sense that
it's no longer producing.
It produces far more artifacted structure than it does useful intelligent novelty
and relational novelty.
Now, assembly theory gives us a variety of metrics and perspectives
that would allow us to determine, and by the way, Cronin himself says,
I certainly am suffering from the hammer-nail problem.
Got a hammer, everything looks like a nail.
Vis-a-vis assembly theory.
And naturally so, because I've never seen a model that could give us the ability
to empirically determine so many, like literally to observe that, which was previously unobservable.
It's almost like assembly theory is a kind of a cognitive lamp that sheds light
on features of the universe that we have previously understood to exist,
but had no way to formalize. That's incredible.
So I'm going to try to make a future recording about this in which I am vastly more capable
of reiterating some of the root concepts
associated with assembly theory. And I have to say that
I've been a, what, a scientophile. I've loved science since childhood because
it looked like one of the ways of knowing
that the humans propagate that is relatively likely to produce
intelligent understanding, behavior, societies, and so forth. Turns out, not the case.
At least not in my lifetime. Turns out, science is the way of knowing most likely to produce
absolute devastation on earth. And by absolute, I mean the capacity to snuff the biosphere,
shut it off like a fucking light switch. And everyone says, oh, there's no way to do that.
They're wrong. I could show them five ways to do it now. Once you have a certain array of technologies,
you will have the capacity to combine them in relatively accessible to single humans or
small group ways. This is what Daniel Schmockenberger is on about with,
let's call it, multi-polar threats. He's got some other nomenclature that's also very useful,
race to the bottom. So yeah, life on, you know, the earth is very similar to a cell
in certain respects. And its robust resilience is absolutely dependent on
the continuation of the organs that produce the possibility of homeostasis
in the atmosphere and environment. Much like a cell, if you lies the membrane,
you penetrate the membrane of the cell in the right kind of way, the membrane collapses,
that planet will die. You'll end up with something not dissimilar to Mars. Now, some will argue that
the continuous existence of liquid water on the surface
is sufficient to guarantee the continuance of organismal complexification on earth.
Could be right.
But for myself, I'm bonded with the anciently conserved ecologies in my heart, mind, and spirit.
Science turns out to be the way of knowing that will allow humans to dispose of those,
and in a sense causes them to dispose of them by continuously producing new technologies
that, in factively,
in other words, the continuously penetrate new dimensions of the organs of the biosphere
and offload entropy into them.
This doesn't mean I'm anti-science.
Science is one of the most reliable ways of knowing that we have.
However, science is also heavily compromised
by malignant imperatives
that propagate like a kind of mold in human culture.
And then those imperatives capture ways of knowing
and weaponize them for the sake of profit, power, or
decimation, obliterating things, crushing the opponent zero-sum games.
So science is still half noble, or a tenth noble,
but most of what science will actually produce is likely to further human
