And so, if the opposite of that is happening, now we have the capacity to truly become individuals.
Now, we can be cut off from that rich between of being and concern, humanity, love, wonder,
reverence. Now, we can be cut off from that. And the more cut off we become from that,
the hungrier for things we get, the more we want to defend the remains
in hope that maybe for a moment something beautiful or meaningful might yet come to be,
or we might yet catalyze it, or just as people stay up very late at night because their days
are so desolate of meaning and relation that they don't want to go to sleep yet because they're hoping
maybe in the nighttime when all of that framing stuff dies down, maybe then some beautiful
thing could come to be or we could, you know, someone will call or I can maybe call someone
or something can happen. So, they just stay up, you know, hoping that something happens. And most
of the time, you know, if it's, for example, if I'm talking about myself, I'm just doing something
actually inane, you know, writing something, scrolling through some garbage on the internet,
playing a video game, watching a movie, whatever, eating some kind of nasty food.
So, yeah, that day never comes, most of the time.
Before I began to speak, I was thinking about vigilance and hypervigilance
and how vigilance used to lead us into intimacy with our cohorts, right, when we had cohorts.
Vigilance was rewarded and sort of a sign of sensing within four
one's intimate cohort, but not just them.
But vigilance is really dangerous in a situation where we're constantly
driven to be vigilant so that we become multi-vigilant, hypervigilant.
And that makes us really unresilient. It's a really serious danger. There's still some
kinds of vigilance that pay off, but most of the like self-generating recursive aspects of
vigilance that lead to hypervigilance and multi-vigilance, those are symptoms of the breakdown
of the between, right? Now we can't depend on anyone else to help us. You know, it's like,
it's like a school of individual fish, right, where they don't move together,
and they respond as individuals to a threat rather than a group, right, which loses them,
you know, three quarters of their innate responsiveness first move.
Those group movements are protective, right, flocks of birds,
wheels of pigeons,
murmurations of blackbirds, schools of fish.
You see in these examples,
swarm of animals becoming a super animal, a meta animal, beyond mere individual animals,
and humans are made for this. We do it however in dimensions that have mostly been
kidnapped, and we've been conscripted primarily to meaningless roles in the void and chaos
that ensues when all of our interiority is invaded and represented and evaluated for value and
judged and dismissed and amputated and, you know, denigrated.
If you're a child and they cut part of you off, the first thing you'll hear is, well,
it wasn't there in the first place, right, and this is the resounding rebuff from modern society
toward most of what's meaningful about being human. Oh, that's just a bunch of fantasy noise.
Yeah, in a world of swarming representations where there's not enough spacers
or silence for it to even begin to emerge,
that looks like a true statement.
But when we make the space and the intention together and invite our potentials into emergence together,
sincerely, earnestly, reverently,
we will find out whether that's just a bunch of fantasy bullshit or not.
In the same way, lightning or earthquakes or volcanoes teach humans whether their
representational frameworks are a bunch of fantasy bullshit or not.
The other night in the lightning storm, I realized
this is just how incredibly vulnerable to total decimation,
the frameworks and languages and histories and knowledge, but particularly the physical
stuff we've made is to just being completely obliterated by nature.
If she but gently move her pinky, all that we have done is gone, and maybe us.
I think our capacity to build things like this
is very deceiving about where the precedents of power lies with us and our machines
or in the before of their origins or even their origins.
Something will pierce the charade, whether in my lifetime or not and in what ways, I can't say, but
the game being played on the broad scale by humans,
those games are nearly all
really bizarre delusional results of having fallen down the ladder
of origin and relation and the between of us into structure and representations,
products, processes. That will not fly much longer, but it needn't fly in our own lives because
we, being aware of this, will have the, you know, we, our opportunity to move out of it
into true and meaningful roles and relations, even in a context that gravely inhibits that.
Our capacity, our opportunity to do that, expands.
And in the waterfall of crises
that are happening now and are to come,
more and more aspects of the delusional charades of atrocity and omniside
our cultures actually represent.
They don't merely represent it, they are the engines of its accomplishment.
More and more of those layers will become visible even to common people.
I'm not sure how helpful that will be. However,
perhaps we may tend to fall away from relation, excuse me, away from representation
toward relation in catastrophes. There's some evidence of this historically.
It's not the only thing that's going to happen.
When we're highly vigilant, we're not especially smart. It takes a lot of energy.
And it probably produces some metabolic problems over long term because it's meant to be a short
term, high intensity thing. So, but in isolation, hyper, you know, vigilance becomes a constant
because we can no longer depend on the field of minds and souls and lineages and bodies of our
cohort with whom we would otherwise deeply belong, meaningfully belong.
We're no longer making sense with them and they're not making sense with us.
So, in isolation, again, we lose three quarters of the sensory domains we might otherwise naturally
feel and need and as part of that underlying nourishment, that I'm saying keeps getting
hijacked and kidnapped and sold back to us as representations, right, tokens, objects, bullshit.
We can't recreate the field on our own, no matter how intelligent or insightful we are.
Though there's a scope of concern in which an individual can make sense by themselves,
right, there's a scope of concern there. I can make sense just walking up this path,
for example, in the sense that I don't stumble over my own foot right now.
But in general, intelligence doesn't lie in individuals. And we have this myth that individuals
are containers for qualities. That's not what's going on telling you. They might be localizations
of qualities, but that's different from a container. And when I say localization, I mean
they're a unique participant in the field of the evolution of consciousness, knowledge,
language, culture, science, ideas, perspectives, insights. They're a unique point of presence
for that field. But if that field becomes incoherent, it's extremely difficult for the
local single individual to be making sense, because they use the field to make sense with.
So we inherit decoherence from the relational between when relationships are replaced with
representations of what might have been, what otherwise might have been.
And in that situation, we're prone to become hyper vigilant, all kinds of other problems ensue.
I'm carrying wounds, I'm a human, I'm an ego, I have insecurity, doubt, shame. I'm going to
not be terribly likely to look inward at that myself, but I'll project it outward onto the
world around me, and then react against what's actually in myself as if it were in the world
primarily, which doesn't entirely mean it isn't. It's just that the fact that it's in the world
isn't really the charged aspect of that
behavior.
So when we're alone, vigilance can break us down very quickly. Even, and I'm not just
meaning mentally, like metabolically, we're not made for high vigilance over long periods.
That's why sports games don't go on for 12 hours.
Although, you know, there are domains where humans test vigilance over long periods of time.
And again, that our experience of having to be hyper vigilant because we're alone,
or on our own, or I'm the only one who can actually affect my life ideas, the only one.
That turns into like a metabolic toxic cocktail, and that makes us again hungry for products.
Right now, again, we want something to represent to us not having felt serenity,
not having felt calm, not feeling safe enough to be present, not feeling safe enough
to play and learn and grow. Because the incredible prevalence of machines and frameworks
incoherence, decoherence, desynchronization,
zeitstor, time breaking, in our experience, is eating up the space in which we might otherwise
have new faculties, new senses, new opportunities, creativity, play, joy, wonder.
The stuff that actually makes for a meaningful moment, a meaningful life in our experience.
Of course, some will argue, no, no, it's liberation from all of that desire. True enough.
But we don't usually start there. We kind of start in kindergarten of, you know,
and not all of us are inclined to be mindfulness practitioners and to succeed along that path.
And even the mindfulness practitioners will admit, oh no, there's steep meaning in relation,
right? I think in true relation and active sensing and play and wonder,
I don't think they'd throw all that away and just say, ah, a bunch of samsara. I hope not.
I'd be a pretty grouchy mindfulness person.
When our cohorts are coherent, even if they're small, that is profoundly
medicinal and calming, because we can, we're distributing the sense making among us. So
the whole weight of trying to make sense of the entire universe doesn't land on one human being's
back anymore. And we not only help each other to make sense when the cohort has integrity,
we reward each other, we nourish each other. If we were looking at this from an economic standpoint,
there's no possible way we'd ever pick game A, what everyone's doing in general. We'd never
pick that. We'd always pick a trusted cohort of people we love that love us that we can develop
explosively together and beautifully and playfully and help each other and take a little bit of the
burden where someone's got too much and guide each other and learn to see together, because I'd
much rather have these five fingers than this one. And I'd much rather have this one than a
representation of it, because that's not actually a sense, right? This is a real sense.
No, I mean, the amount of work we have to do to defect from meaningful relation
with nature and other human beings, the amount of work we have to do if we're going to defect from
that, it just gets mountainous. And it keeps being new domains in which we have to do more work
over time. That game kills everything. That game does not work. And it's a game modeled after a gross
misapprehension of evolutionary theory that we could call social Darwinism. But social Darwinism
isn't from evolution, it's from humans doing stupid things harder and harder in more new ways per
moment. And then claiming, well, we're just modeling it on nature. No, that's not,
there's nothing like that in nature anywhere except us.
So it's imperative that we form, learn together, help each other, even if only for an hour. We don't
have to succeed on a broad scale. We don't have to transform the world overnight. Hey,
it would be great if we could. But we can do little experiments, right, in cohort building,
and, you know, finding a direction together and learning how to be together in a tightly knit
group that's within for each other all the time. And if things break down, that's the direction
humans are going to naturally travel in, because that's our nature to do that. Same way dolphins
and whales and fish make schools and, you know, we are social preachers. And that's been co-opted,
killed off, sold back to us in millions of new forms, you know, whatever. But that's our nature,
and that's why we're vulnerable to that gambit. We need each other fundamentally, all the time.
And, you know, again, I'm speaking in overarching generalities, which isn't a form I'm fond of,
but I'm trying to point at something that's very general. There's all kinds of unique exceptions
in the field. And yes, I'm looking mostly at the people who are the median or the average,
the sort of most common denominator. And a lot of what we see in there is people who are either
people who are either badly injured, or they just fell off a cliff of not trying,
not trying, not trying. So that's not a good indicator of what it means to be human.
That's sort of the little pool in that layer of hell, right, that contains the most people.
There are many of us who struggle and sometimes succeed
to remember, to discover, and to reorient ourselves. To whatever degree we may be able,
however small that degree may seem. And to be very clear, though I can see all of these things,
I am capable of seeing them. Being them is vastly more challenging in a context where
there's no generator for cohorts that are meaningful. You can't sign up for one of those.
Or if you can, I mean, it may be pre-corrupted.
But there's, there are very few generators for meaningful cohorts.
And one of them is a really impact, really passionately held mutual purpose.
And this is part of why you can get meaningful cohorts. For example, this is going to sound weird,
but a tightly knit terrorist group can be a very intensely meaningful cohort.
They're going to put their lives on the line for something they've all agreed.
And this presumes they weren't brainwashed entirely, which maybe most of them are.
But similarly, you know, a nine-man special ops group, that's a really intimate cohort.
I'm using examples from war because they're the low-hanging fruit, right? They're right in front
of my face. So yeah, there's no, there are very few cohort generators. And part of the reason
it's attractive for young men, when it is, to go to war, is they know about this cohort thing.
And they've had it in childhood maybe, or a semblance of it and they want more.
Humans are extremely highly motivated when they're a part of a deeply shared
relational between of intimacy. And one of the primary arbiters of that type of relation
is importance. Something is truly profoundly important so that our purpose
is to approach and relate with something deeply and profoundly important together.
That's a relatively near-at-hand catalyst for relational intensity and depth.
The sun and the moon never look the same in the camera as they do to my eye.
I'm grateful even for this electronically mediated between of us. I'm thankful to anyone who's
motivated to watch my videos. Hope that you may find something interesting or useful in there.
And feel free to post questions or comments.
Or if it's really important, get in touch.
Thanks everybody.
Bye-bye for now.
