Hey, everybody.
I'm thinking about you.
When I begin to make these videos or speak, explore something.
Somehow those of you who find yourselves inclined to watch the video or listen and hopefully
participate in your imagination, as I do even when I'm making something, then kind
of magic happens where our minds and spirits come together in a place that can be dismissed
with language but cannot be encompassed by it.
In a way, in ways, many ways, that have that same quality.
They can be dismissed with language but they cannot be encompassed by it.
Language means, in our language, English, it's extremely difficult to point meaningfully
at this place we come together.
We've been making these videos and in some way with those who observe them sincerely.
We're sharing soul time.
We're inviting each other in ways that are different from me making a video and someone
listening.
But we're inviting each other into communion, into a kind of intimacy, into a between of
relation.
And that's a deeply profound way of relating.
Even though it's mediated by the electronics, which is a really strange thing to put into
that mix, I have to say, it's a very troubling thing to put in the between of us, these machines.
To put tools in there, in the living between of all beings, to put machines, and in the
living between of our relationships for there to be machines.
And I can hear objections, even in my own mind.
But still fundamentally, I think this is a very dangerous and tragic thing to do.
We human beings tend to synchronize to the between of relationships and habits and activities
and tasks and frameworks and routines and expectations.
And against them too, but we synchronize both ways, right, for and against.
It's a lot of synchronization work in a world full of meaningless objects and machines.
We acquire our senses of meaning and value, identity, potential, relation, primarily from
our contexts, unless we're quite good at inventing sort of creatively, playfully, moment to moment
what these values become for us, rather than collapsing to the well exchanged norms of identity
meaning value relationship, commerce, so on.
Some of us manage to preserve a field of play above those highly collapsed, highly structured,
mechanical, um, sub positions.
But it's a grim omen in my latter life to observe machines swarming into the between
of us with purposes and driven by frameworks that are malignant, homicidal, self terminating,
really really dangerous and wrong in a very fundamental way.
This is wrong.
The same way the deer knows that the car that crushes it is wrong, that kind of wrong.
Because you see there never was an animal in nature that acted like a machine until our
people became makers of objects and tools and war and killing.
And sure, housing and writing and music and dance, and maybe some branches of science still
have light in there.
But then and from there on, in a world that had never known cages, cages were everywhere.
And then they infected our minds because our minds become like the tools and weapons and
computers and apps we employ, our minds trained toward those very low targets, those cruelly
impoverished targets, pre impoverished.
And we moved in, we moved from nature in our bodies and from relating with nature as our
minds into little boxes and skeletons and dissections, discriminations, distinguishings,
extinguishings.
And this blinded us, our people to the degree wherever it happened, and there are places
where it doesn't, that we called this progress and thought of it as advancement.
And it's not untrue that in certain vectors of perspective, it's easy to understand that
I'm holding as much computing power in my hand as my nation had in 1950 or 30, you know,
pick your year, but what did we make of them and what are we becoming in the shadow of
the tools that divide us, surveil us, observe us, analyze us, but not for us.
For organs of institutions like governments and corporations, and societal frameworks
where advertising, the goal of acquiring our attention to sell us products, collapsed our
experience of privacy into a seething array of layered nightmares.
So that whole machine in the middle thing, I think we should be extremely suspicious
about that until and unless we see clear evidence that our people or a group of our people have
discovered ways to promote deep awareness of the dangers and careful and intelligent development
of the potentials, driven not by surveillance or the desire to sell us something or the
fact that our attention equals money for someone, not us, driven by purposes that are noble
and whose effects are medicinal at the very least. Until then, machines don't belong between us,
and perhaps they never will, but we can recognize their sudden momentous intrusion into the between
of us, our own bodies, the rhythms of our bodies, our sleep, our dreaming. We can recognize that
as a symptom and a signal, something we should pay very careful attention to without being terrified
so that we can understand the process, its origins, how it came to be. Not perfectly,
but in a way that improves as we continue to explore the question, not looking for the answer,
working to understand the field from which the humans over the course of the evolution of what
we refer to as consciousness, and that's a story of biblical proportion to be sure,
and we're still enmeshed in that developmental path, even though I'd argue we're taking really
severe damage from machine exposure in our current phase of the development of consciousness.
From the time when our species, when our people became capable of building structure,
and thus, and this isn't, that's not the only causal aspect, having our interiority collapse in a
similar way so that we defected from nature in our souls and in our minds, while we defected
from nature in our bodies into cages, where there's mostly dead space and not much moves
except on screens. And tragically, cages are where minds go to die, which isn't to say there are
no minds that can prosper in such cages, but rather, we're very vulnerable to a kind of
relational hypoxia, right, where the dimensions of relation disappear into representations that
no longer feed us, and are actually the artifacted remains of having skipped over intimacy,
presence, relation. Sometimes because we were frightened, sometimes because we are lonely,
there's a terrifying plague of loneliness in a world where everyone can communicate through
machines pretty much, if they want to. It's as if that invented new forms of loneliness,
right, that were obscured by the seemingly concrete fact of the Facebook news feed,
the Twitter feed, Instagram, Pinterest, so on. News. I suspect that though some of us are getting a
taste of it, the vast majority of people are starving to death for anything resembling a
significant moment of deep authentic relation. Sometimes when I'm making the videos,
I really just want to listen and stop speaking. And in fact, when I'm listening in my heart,
in my soul, in my body, with my ears, it seems ridiculous to start making face noises at all.
I was having a conversation the other day with a young woman who struggled with bulimia and
anorexia. And we were talking about anger and loneliness, isolation, pain. And she spoke
of something very familiar to me, which is just that hypoxic impoverishment of meaningful role
and relation and identity and activity and adventure, but really just of deep loving
relation with a few other human beings. And that really resonated with me. And I said,
it's almost as if it's insulting to eat physical food in a context where the fundamentally nourishing
necessities of our human existence, deep, heartful, meaningful, playful relation,
meaningful roles, adventures, meaningful activity together, all of that's denied. And we get what?
The physical thing, the piece of chicken, the cheese, the salad, we get the token. So we're
going to be starved in all the ways that actually matter, but we'll get the physical thing and eat
that. And it can be viewed as an incredible cruelty. And so if I throw up the food, then people see
that something is fundamentally fucked about what's going on, what's not going on in all the
domains where it deeply profoundly matters and we're starving for these things. But we keep
getting the physical food instead, as if we're going to have to keep doing this work of eating it
so that all those other things will keep not happening forever in worse and worse ways over time.
And I'm not laughing, there's nothing humorous about this except that there's a peculiar aspect
of insight required for us to achieve a perspective like that above the terrain in which we're
normally really enmeshed and to some degree blinded by. But she and I together kind of naturally are
able to form a meaningful exploratory between and try to understand our own pain, our own
situation, our own confusion, our own loneliness, our own sadness.
And every once in a while we succeed. And I think there's something too, this thing I'm pointing
at here, where having largely each of us uniquely and some of us not as much as others and some of
us catastrophically more than others, having all been denied the fundamentally most nourishing and
necessary aspects of our human lives, without which our days become meaningless drudgery
and horrible isolation. I mean, just let's get one thing straight, right? One of the main things most
modern nations do to punish criminals is isolate them. And if you're really bad, you get completely
isolated. And so the sort of soft, vulnerable human being in all of us is wondering, why am I so bad
that I have to be isolated all the time and they keep pretending to connect people to me or things
to me, but it's mostly just to sell me shit or direct my attention to something they get money from.
Right? That's a really cruel and human library of punishments.
So intrinsically, many of us begin to feel I must be truly bad. No one wants to relate, no one's
relating with me. There's no opportunities for relation. The jobs are just grueling slave tasks.
And the weekends are filled either with, you know, some kind of hyper normal replacement.
Video games or drugs or porn or fucking driving sports cars or whatever, you know,
whatever non nourishing thing somehow manages to attract what's
sort of injured remains of our attentional faculties.
Okay.
We have the capacity to have some effect on whether our lives are abundant or impoverished,
but the contexts we live in
really keep doubling down on isolation.
And part of that is because it's incentivized, the more isolated we become, the more malnourished
in new dimensions of our humanity that had yet been unfracked by capitalism and
whatever kind of nonsense you would want to call the swarming massive institutions
that prevail over our lives present.
Yes, we have free will, but we're also human and social. And so if the social field of the between
is desynchronizing and decoherent, incoherent, injecting incoherents into our lives and
relationships, what happens is that's incentivized because the hungrier we get,
the more broken we are inside, the more we want to buy something, right?
Oh, the cocaine will fix this or the tequila or the tobacco or the 17 cupcakes or, you know,
the sports car, the new job, the new lover, the new book, the new bed, get something, get something.
Again, you know, you see, you get the physical thing just like in my example, right?
You get some physical object that represents a bunch of really weird things. If you think about it,
like, what does a microwave oven represent in terms of relationships? Well, a bunch of environmental
omniside, a bunch of torture and factories, a bunch of banking. It's like, if we were
metaphysically minded, I don't think we'd let most of the objects that are in our lives,
anywhere near our lives, because they would appear from that perspective to be mostly
necessarily evil, right? They're made of bad things, bad relationships for bad purposes,
and they're sold to us after having been disabled or, you know, having had huge
aspects of our humanity castrated during childhood and adolescence and young adulthood
and adulthood and middle age and older age. It just keeps going on.
But there's money in that, because if you keep taking something away from our interior, right,
we get hungrier and hungrier for things we can try to replace that with objects,
for example, physical food. But something inside us recognizes this atrocity, and it gets very
angry and hurt and frightened because now we're living in a world where I have to not eat food
or throw it up in order to demonstrate to the commons, right, the between of us,
that something's horribly wrong and nobody's paying any attention, and actually they're pretending
it's wrong with me and that I'm broken. And so in a way, you can see a kind of,
from one angle, right, you can see a kind of messianic heroism to someone in this condition
who is anorexic or bulimic in some way that resonates with what I'm talking about.
They're desperately trying to show everyone that we're all starving to death in all the places
that aren't physical food, but we've got a whole bunch of physical food, so let's party.
But the physical food doesn't replace the other kinds. In fact, not only does it not replace them,
it easily exacerbates, magnifies,
what we're losing,
because we can substitute the physical food for the awareness of what's missing,
which otherwise I think would be extremely difficult.
In other words, were we having to struggle to get food? It'd be much harder to hide the fact
of the 60 impoverishments to our lives and humanity and society and interiority.
Machines in the between of us.
It'd be harder to hide that stuff, right, if we were physically starving too.
But if we can eat food as a representation,
we can, by defecting from that awareness, we can partially, very crudely or clumsily
cover it over, right, hide it, hide from it.
Except some of us can't.
It's the evening,
crow, sunset, community,
convocation of crows.
That's a good word.
When the between of us is incoherent and filled with noise, malware,
deceptive signal, intentionally deceptive signals,
attempts at mind control, some of which, you know, are relatively simple to succeed with,
then where will we
reset the inner compass? We use each other to feel and think and know with,
or social animals in this way.
This idea that there's an individual is actually kind of silly because
it's sort of a fiction of language.
There aren't any individuals without other people. There's no language, no use for it,
no knowledge, no use for it.
All the things we think of as being individual come not merely from our relationships with
culture, and society, and language, and knowledge, and concepts, habits, overlays, frameworks,
functions.
So, whether we resist or we run into, you know, into the cages, frameworks,
the representations, or still the entire context is very momentously
charging in the direction of exchanging tokens for relationships. I mean, money is the simplest
example of that. And inventing new ways to do that faster and faster over time, accelerating
that process. So, that just makes us hungrier, trains us to be better consumers.
But it's incredibly confusing because ordinarily,
whether or not we like to admit it, no matter how we frame it in language,
we depend on each other to make sense together, right?
