So these are things that concern me.
Now, there is also a mode of truth which supervenes over concepts.
The truth of our organismal nature or perhaps our actual nature beyond the idea of organism.
But before I go too far in this direction, I want to circle back to the idea that our language and our traditional habits of using language are extremely deceptive.
Surely a car is not the same thing when it is just sitting there, being expensive in five different ways or fifty different ways.
Environmentally expensive, financially expensive, attentionally expensive.
We have to pay for insurance and gasoline and maintenance and all of these things.
So you can see that in a way the car is hitchhiking on living systems in a way that resembles in some facets, if we so desire, a virus, a virus of enormous size.
So do we think of the cars as viruses or vehicles?
Do we think of them as a disease or a convenience?
What are they actually?
Outside the collective representations, what are they doing?
What are we doing with them?
And in this direction we find the possibility of escaping linguistic truth to reform it.
So that the mind that I have when I'm dot beep blop trying to be distracted or am aboard or my mind is not really alive is very different from the kind of mind that I'm experiencing at the moment.
And I'm actually struggling moment to moment with the transition between something much more ordinary and mundane and something that begins to become insightful or profound
or where I am actually learning in process.
It's as if I'm trying to switch gears and I'm struggling because I'm not warmed up in a sense.
So forgive me if my talk meanders a bit around these things.
Now certainly we understand that things which are called the same thing in language are not the same thing in experience.
The fact that someone calls something food does not mean we want to eat it.
Some foods we prefer and enjoy, other foods we struggle with, others will make us sick, some can kill us.
So are all those things really the same thing, the way that the categories seem to declare and ask us to or incline us to believe.
And all of the features of our lives are like this.
Education is a continuum. It's a topology.
There are mountains where the profundity and success of the educational process is like explosive.
And there are other situations where the drudgery is actually making us dumber as we follow along recapitulating the examples we've been told to master and express by teachers.
I struggled with this a lot in school and many of us have because I could always see far beyond what was being taught to me.
That's not true. I could often see far beyond what was being taught to me to a degree where what was being taught seemed either trivial, nonsensical or simply wrong.
And I think this is in part because for me I was able to preserve an aspect of awareness that was at odds with the representations I was being scripted with.
And that beyond direction represents another form of truth, right?
The truth outside our collective representations and also maybe truth as a direction rather than as a derivative.
If we want to get smarter and see better in our common experience and lives and thought, we're going to have to find a doorway or a few doorways that lead us outside of the representations and the way they incline us to think and to even experience the world.
If certainly an Indigenous person would have a catastrophically different experience of a car, never having seen a machine, then a Western person who's familiar with them would be likely to have.
Now the Indigenous person could probably adopt over time something that resembles the modern's idea, but the reverse is much more difficult, right?
For the modern to see the car with awe and terror and great concern, perhaps even, you know, worry, this is more difficult because we tend to find a chord with over time, right?
We've been steeped in the broth of our collective representations so thoroughly that it's very challenging for most of us, most of the time, to depart from that and see it from beyond the collective representations.
Certainly if we are ecologically concerned at all, if we value the anciently conserved ecologies, the complex animals, their symbiotic, life-giving behavior, then we then become capable of having ideas about cars and machines
that are not like those common in our everyday experience, discussion, the news, television and so on, where the truthfulness and the usefulness of these representations is taken blindly for granted.
I've spoken in many videos of the importance of maintaining a topological understanding of identity and there are other features, other models than topology that are also quite useful.
But when I say this, what I mean is our common linguistic behavior inclines us to think that all cars are always cars, right?
This is the Aristotelian version of identity. No car is not a car and no car is both a car and not a car.
And yet it is blatantly obvious that this form of logic, while useful in a very limited scope or context, is actually false to the facts of our experience.
And this is something that Alfred Korzybski was at pains to try to get humanity as a whole to understand when he wrote his very dense and somewhat impenetrable book, Science and Sanity.
He was nullifying the Aristotelian law of identity, which is a circular kind of logic that simply says, we call it a bird, therefore it is a bird.
In Korzybski's formulation, what we call it may or may not be useful, but whatever it might actually be cannot be what we call it.
And when you begin to entertain this idea in a serious way, you realize, or it is common to realize, that our language games are not merely misleading.
They're mostly wrong anywhere outside of the game of validation by comparison to the lexicon of collective representations.
Now when I speak of a topological model, I mean something like the experience of food.
What is this substance? Wow. What could this be? Where does it come from?
I wonder if I'm seeing a technological substance or a natural substance.
It seems that it must be a technological substance. I've never seen anything like this. It is like, hmm.
I suppose that it's like microbeads. Hmm.
I'm going to pause for a moment and explore this because I really want to see. It's a golden, yeah, it must be microbeads.
But let's have a peek with the magnifying glass. Give me a moment and I shall return.
Sometimes there's a moment of serendipity when we're thinking about someone or something.
The other day I was on a call with one friend and I mentioned another friend and that person called right at that moment.
And now I have seen something that I don't recall ever seeing something like it before on the ground and I wanted to know what it is, right?
But it's very important when we first encounter something unfamiliar to us to notice the set of transformations that happens in our minds
as we attempt to determine things like, is this valuable? Is this dangerous? Is this an opportunity? Is it a threat?
Is it an ordinary substance? Is it a non-ordinary thing? We're trying to determine what is going on.
And the process involves comparison to previously experienced things.
And there are sort of biological features of this process, but there are also cognitive features of this process.
As an animal, we may experience smells or feelings or fear, particularly when exposed to something that we can't find a previous experience of.
I remember some time ago a friend had been playing guitar at my house and when he went home he left his guitar there so I brought it back to his house.
And because I have permission to enter his house at Will, I went through his backyard, brought the guitar into his garage
and was going to put it in his house to hang it on, you know, the little hanger on the wall that it goes on.
But as I entered his house, or his garage actually, he was emerging into his garage from his home and he was not expecting a human to be there.
And I watched as he went through a series of transformations from the initial shock of discovering something unexpected to the preparation for violence,
to recognition that this wasn't a threat, to recognition, ah, this is my friend, Darren.
And this is the process that we are engaged in, or rather there's a model of this process that's very useful, which is the collapsing of a manifold to a derivative.
We go, and even now I am doing this when I am attempting to speak coherently, we go from everything or nothing to something and then we try to determine the class, right?
Thing, being, process, so on, according to the structure of our languages and collective representations.
Now, what's really interesting about this is that I'm demonstrating this by simply speaking about it, right?
In order to form coherent sentences, I must do something similar.
And when I found the strange substance on the ground, which I now believe to be little piles of microbeads,
at first I had no idea what that was.
And my first feeling was, this resembles pollen because it was golden and sparkly.
And I thought, this is something perhaps a tree has produced.
But on closer observation, it was very clear that trees do not produce substances like this.
These are produced by chemistry. This is, this is an artificial substance.
The topological model of identity is incredibly important.
So important that really we should teach it to children as we are teaching them language,
so that they don't become hypnotized by the declarative, you know, explicit identities that language proposes.
For me, the first time that I realized a car is not a car,
or at least it is not a car when it is not being a vehicle.
That was a crucial insight about the nature of identity that led me beyond the human collective representations
and the traps in language and knowledge toward something resembling insight.
It's nearly impossible for us to be intelligent if we take the superficial structure of language and identity as factual or true.
It's clear that most of these structures are structures of convenience, not truth, right?
If we really want to understand what a car is, where will we begin from?
If we simply think, oh, it's an artificial object, yes, yes, but why are there artificial objects?
Why are there incredibly sophisticated machines? Why do humans, a biological organism, produce these?
Why do we make languages and use them in such a way that rather than becoming more intelligent each time we use them,
we become less so and less capable of the sensitivities, forms of awareness and consciousness
that lead us out of the traps of representational cognition into the field of the possibilities of insight
and forms of truth that radically exceed the rather trivial by comparison scope of our common derivations.
Not just our derivations, but the traditional or habitual ways of thinking and using these concepts to form structures in consciousness.
The idea of enlightenment, which means like brightness in the mind, is in part the idea of having thrown off this superficial hypnosis of language model concept and identity.
Thankfully, it never stopped anyone from being capable of utilizing the representations in the ways that ordinary people might be inclined to do in what we think of as ordinary situations.
But are any situations actually ordinary? The fundamental non-ordinariness of existence itself is easily lost in our habitual thinking of such things, right?
And so in a way, the idea of enlightenment, well, again, we're in the same trap, right?
I'm using language to describe things that language can at best poorly point toward and cannot actually convey.
If it were possible to convey enlightenment through language, the process might look something like what Korzybski was hoping to teach the humans.
Sorry, a car was driving recklessly enough that I was concerned it might hit me, and though I'm on the sidewalk.
Korzybski was hoping to relieve us of the strange burden of false knowledge that is conferred upon us by participation in the collective representations in the languages, ideas, concepts, and models that are common to our place and time and people.
So in my attempt to convey some of these matters, I'm trying to do what I'm talking about, right? I'm trying to walk beyond the field of the familiar, the known, the correct toward something that is the possibility of insight.
One of the things that I wanted to mention was just that there are ideas that are more important than the kind of truth we find in the collective representations.
And some of these ideas, whether or not they are true, are more useful to us in obtaining insight or understanding or in learning than the mode of truth that we're used to using to evaluate propositions or speculations or statements.
It seems that the minds of men over history have been inclined toward a declarative form of truth that is relatively explicit.
Whereas comparatively in this model, the minds of females are resistant to the sudden explicit imposition of meaning, identity, or value.
The minds of females seem more inclined to orbit rather than to penetrate or cut and to suggest and invite and use indirection rather than, again, the sort of that is a this, right, declaration.
There are also features of traditional indigenous knowledge that seem to conserve an awareness of all of many of the problems we've discussed here.
So that rather than declare identity, they might refer to qualities or invite consideration in a way that is largely alien to the Western mind.
I'm trying to think of some good examples, but even in the sort of bizarre colonial representations of American Indians in film, we often see this property, we see some representation of this property in language and thought.
So that the indigenous languages may employ analogy or metaphor where we would be inclined simply to make a declaration.
Perhaps the trope as the crow flies to distinguish the difference between the distance between two points and the path that humans can take between two points.
What sort of happens or what is common in our language is we throw away the ladder and simply declare the distance to be as if we were measuring it from above in a straight line.
Very, very few paths are straight.
In actuality, that straight line is an idealization and it's an idealization that occurs on the surface of a sphere if we're walking on Earth.
And so many of these things are crucially important to bear in mind because there's this gravity to the declarative, to the explicit, to the pure derivation over an interval.
And over time these become entrenched so that we fail to think of distance not in the term of as the crow flies.
And even the crow may not make what we call a B line from one point to another.
So you can see that there's this similar problem in our concepts where we collapse the complexities and many of the features of identity that are crucial to conserve into a relatively clinical derivation.
Why is this dangerous?
It literally changes how we experience the world and our experience, relationships and situations.
By acting as a filter and all that doesn't pass the filter is considered not true and that which is not true is immediately dismissed in some situations.
I have great respect for peoples who have conserved a healthy degree of concern about all of these different matters.
It is said that in Blackfoot, this was told to me by my friend Ryan, if someone asks you, do you know the story of, for example, Scarface?
It is traditional to respond with no and it's considered rude and perhaps arrogant to say yes.
Now think carefully about this traditional or this tradition for a moment with me.
If we have heard a story from someone and let us say it's a traditional story, each retelling of the story is occurring in a new context.
My mind is different from the first time I heard it.
If someone says, have you read a book?
What they usually mean is, did you read the book from beginning to end?
And I may say, for example, yes, I have read this book.
But does that mean that I know the book?
No.
And in fact, it turns out that with books that are really valuable and produce insight, a re-reading of the book is likely to grant me new kinds of insight and understanding that the previous reading didn't grant.
So it is too with the telling of stories.
Each person may know unique features, particularly of a traditional story in an indigenous culture that were not either presented in another telling or were presented slightly differently.
And so in truth, we don't know the story.
And to declare that we do is kind of to end not just the conversation, but the possibility of learning.
And this is why it is frowned upon in part.
This is in part why it's frowned upon to simply declare, yes, I know it.
So these peoples have maintained the awareness of the danger of knowledge, believing that we know something, that cursory knowledge is complete knowledge, that linguistic knowledge is complete knowledge, when this literally cannot be true, though it can be made true in a kind of tragic way in our behavior.
Before I wrap up, I just want to remember that there are many different modes of truth, and some of them may produce statements or propositions that are explicitly not factual.
But this does not mean they are not true.
It depends on the form of truth we're chasing and our purposes in chasing it.
Consider the bizarre toy that certainly was not first discovered by Bertrand Russell, but was popularized by him, the Rossellian paradox.
This statement is false.
It turns out that there are a number of features of this statement which are profoundly edifying if we will consider them deeply, rather than just deciding, oh, it's a paradox, next.
So the first feature is that the statement has no, not the first, but the first I'll look at here, is that the statement has no content, and since it has no content, it can neither be true nor false.
A statement without content cannot have the quality, it cannot be properly tested for truth or falsity, even in the layer of the collective representations in the language.
So the first part of understanding the paradox is to notice the statement has no meaning.
But the second part of the paradox is to notice that statements don't determine their own truth or falsity, minds do that.
And so we might introduce a property of statements that goes something like this.
No statement shall, by self-reference or other means, promote itself to the order of minds that interpret statements.
And having seen these two things, we are not yet, we've not exhausted the possibilities of learning in this toy statement, but we have come to some insight about the nature of statements and language in general.
And that insight is profoundly useful, because in our language, in our traditions, and in our common communications behavior, there's a problem where humans confuse the facticity of a statement, right, because a statement has been made in language.
I've just made one.
We confuse that facticity with our possible evaluations of the content of statements.
And this is an anachronism, right, a historical remnant of the sort of mythological features of language where language itself is magical and determines reality rather than describes it.
Or even creates reality, right?
So let us remember that the idea of truth is a bit like a concentric circle.
If we want to put the truth of statements in the center, we have a small circle there, then we have the circle around that, with which we will point at minds that interpret statements.
And then there is a circle around that, which is statements the truth or falsity of which are not the most important feature of.
The important feature is, can we gain new perspective insight?
Can we find in these kinds of models or ideas medicine for the terrifying collapse of consciousness and intelligence that our modern situation and use of language so easily and constantly kind of hypnotically inclines us toward.
And then beyond that, there is the truth of being, the truth of being a human or the truth of being a being at all, or the origin of beings, the origin of minds, right?
This is a direction rather than a place we can get to.
And this is I think why in enlightenment, in ideas about enlightenment or discussions about it, it's essentially an infinite direction.
Yes, one can say, for example, and very few enlightened people would, I have achieved enlightenment, or another person might say about us that they have validated our enlightenment, say a Zen Roshi or something like this.
But even then, the person whose enlightenment has been thus validated will still not make this declaration, I am enlightened for very complex reasons that have to do with the non truth or falseness of the nature of awareness itself.
Thank you for joining me.
I very much appreciate those of you who listen.
And I hope that if you've enjoyed my videos, you may share them with others or consider supporting them on my Patreon page, which there are links to on my YouTube page.
I look forward to learning again together very soon and wish you wise ways, joy, and the great gift of insight.
Bye-bye for now.
