Hello everybody. Welcome. I'm out on a post-Christmas jaunt in the cold with the coming rain.
I have many things that I've been learning and thinking about, trying to understand some of the unusual transformations
in the world and in human society and even in the minds and experience of my friends and relations over, say, the past five years.
When it seems that something fundamental is changing dramatically and there are many features of our experience which our lexicons lack concepts for.
It's unlikely for us to bring them into consideration if we don't know words for them.
Of course, our body senses and our feelings, there's a lexicon about those, but the senses in our mind, and that lexicon is different in each language,
but the senses in our minds and how changes in the perception of our reality and experience, our feelings, there are, of course, we have the emotion words and such,
but there are vast portions of our experience, and particularly our experience of awareness of different kinds, that there seem to be holes in our lexicons in these places.
And there are many reasons why this might be so, and different languages have different lexicons,
but it also turns out that different forms of specialization have different lexicons, so that, for example, many of the concepts in physics and mathematics are missing from our common ways of thinking about our experience
and identity and relationship situations and so on.
And there are vast, you know, differentia.
There is religious language, there is scientific language, there's mathematical language, there's the language of children, and the peculiar transformations of language that occur in humor.
But I've been thinking for quite some time now about a particular problem, and I was discussing this problem with my friend Forrest the other night,
and we were talking about how it's useful to know and have concepts that while they are not true, they provide insight that might be otherwise impossible to conceive of.
So one of the things we were talking about was that there are ideas in languages what we might call dimensions of meaning that are missing from other languages or haven't been conserved.
A simple example is the gendering of nouns in, say, French or Spanish.
And there are other concepts in indigenous languages such as when one is presenting some form of knowledge.
In the presentation there are ways of indicating how it was acquired.
Is this traditional knowledge? Did I hear it from a specific known person? Or did I hear it generally? Did I read it? Where did the knowledge come from?
So we were kind of marveling at this feature that there are dimensions of meaning that some languages can serve and other languages dispose of.
Some languages naturally express these dimensions of meaning, and other languages either dismiss them or don't traditionally include them.
So for example, the feature of where did I learn something?
English supports this. We can do this in English, but it's very uncommon for us to do so unless there's an important reason linked to what we are trying to communicate.
On my walk I recently noticed something surprising here where I am, which is that there are still living mantises in this late part of the season.
And I learned this from direct observation, and this is me showing that that feature that can be included in English statements and communications, but often isn't.
Now all of this is circling a topic that I've been wanting to speak about for some time now.
And it's the topic of how we evaluate not just statements, but concepts and ideas, declarations, other evaluations, and so on.
And it seems to me that there's kind of a strange problem that's common to us moderns with the idea of truth.
In Owen Barfield's Saving the Appearances, there's a chapter where he speaks about the transformation of the idea of theory.
And apparently, according to him, and this is me doing that thing again right, saying where did I get this from?
Originally in Greek, a hypothesis was a model that accomplished something called saving the appearances.
In other words, the appearances in the terms of physics are rescued within the model.
And when astronomy was young, of course, what do we mean by that?
Let us just say around the time of the Greeks, there were hypotheses for saving the appearances,
meaning something like explaining the changes over time in the locations of the planets in the sky.
Some of the hypotheses were teracentric, right?
Like earth-centric, the things that are orbiting the earth.
And over time, what happened was that the meaning of theory changed.
So originally, the Greek word theoria and the word hypothesis, they meant something like a model
in which the appearances, for example, of the movements of the planets in the sky are explained.
And there were many complex theories about this.
But what was interesting about Barfield's presentation is that there's a difference between a theory,
the truth of falsity of which is irrelevant, and a theory which claims to be fact.
And apparently, around the time of Galileo, the church said to Galileo,
you can teach that your theory saves the appearances, but you cannot teach that it is true.
And so what was at issue here was not necessarily whether a hypothesis satisfactorily saved the appearances,
but whether a hypothesis that appeared to save all the appearances was a fact.
And this marked a radical transformation, not just in the idea of theory, but in the idea of truth.
At this point in time, and certainly there were precursors to this, these are just the stories that we have easy access to,
what was dangerous was the claim that a hypothesis that saved enough of the appearances,
or all of them that we could determine, was the same thing as truth.
You know, was true.
And at this point, this is sort of the beginning of the scientific revolution where we begin to employ hypotheses to discover what is indeed the case.
And prior to this time, hypotheses were useful in that they gave us insight about phenomena
without those insights needing to be seen as true or false.
So one could entertain seven different hypotheses, many of which conflicted with each other,
and obtained different modes of utility from this behavior.
Strangely, Barfield speaks at length about a topic or a referent that he calls our collective representations.
And these are a very complex, lexical, and semantic and conceptual manifold, yes.
And it turns out that much of the testing that we do for truth is really just the validation that a statement or concept or model
is in fact found in our collective representations.
This is a circular form of logic.
Having defined the representational catalog, we then simply go looking for, does this match?
And if it does, it is validated.
And if it doesn't, well, we may say, oh, this is just some form of insanity.
So you can see that there's a problem with truth, and there are something that resembles domains of truthfulness.
If we make concentric circles and the inner one is primarily linguistic, is that a truck?
Well, the answer to this question is determined by the catalog of collective representations that we share.
If we don't share that catalog, the truth of this is a truck is not clear, at least, and may actually be seen as untrue,
simply because the statement doesn't exist.
The concepts and the structure of the statement in the catalog of collective representations is missing.
For a person who has never seen a truck, the idea that this is a automobile is not true,
because they don't have the concept of machine, even, in some cases.
So what turns out to happen is that the catalogs of collective representations are exchanged.
There are transmissions between them over time so that a people who have machines,
this meeting of people who don't have machines, introduce them to the concept,
and the concept is in some way inherited or received into the collective representations of, say, for example,
of people who live in the jungle in the Amazon.
And there are many stories of the strange problems that happen when non-technological peoples are introduced to technology.
I'm trying to remember an author who speaks very eloquently about this, Edmund Carpenter.
He tells stories of the introduction of photographic technologies to an indigenous people,
and how they reacted so confusedly and with great fear and trepidation to being shown photographs of themselves.
There is a story he tells of a people who had an extremely arduous initiation ceremony for their males,
and no females were ever allowed into the ceremony, which involved scarification or deals.
But their photographer was female, and they eventually convinced the people to allow the ceremony to be filmed with the female.
And apparently thereafter, the men stopped having the initiation ceremonies and instead watched the film of them.
This is a portentous transformation of consciousness, tradition, and tests for what is true or valuable or real.
Now the reason that I'm wandering around in this area is that I've long been aware,
after having an initial experience in which I was shown many models of features of human experience,
language, cognition, mathematics that were not from a human perspective.
And the models were not presented to me to show me what was correct or what the truth was.
The models were presented in a way that would allow me to play with them to discover new things,
new features, and new ways of viewing or understanding the things in our catalogs of collective representations.
So for me these models were posed as toys rather than facts,
but many of the toys were so profoundly insightful and astonishing in what they could capture
that they exceeded anything I'd ever been exposed to in my ordinary human life.
So I discovered that there's a class of ways of modeling and thinking
that while whether or not that we can dismiss the truth value of because they're so useful and astonishing,
that they may lead to new forms of truth merely by entertaining them.
And I guess what I'm trying to say here is there's a paradox in the domain of truth.
And many intelligent and wise people have noticed this and are aware of it,
but it's very difficult for them to communicate about this meaningfully with moderns who have not been thoroughly exposed to such models.
So the other day I was in a conversation some time ago now, five or six weeks ago,
in which someone in the conversation began to speak in terms of astrology,
noting that in this time some planet was retrograde and some other planet was, you know, in a trine and so on.
And at first in my thinking I was sort of dismissive,
not necessarily because I had determined whether astrology is true or not,
but rather because suddenly I was gripped with an insight.
And the insight was that a person who was exposed and had absorbed the principles of astrology, the models,
would be capable of thinking in ways that a person who wasn't thus exposed would be very unlikely to think.
For example, one of the most important of these is that there might be character to time.
Time isn't always just the same thing, the clock ticking along, the hours and days passing.
And this is a fundamentally important concept because the mechanization of time has deprived us of the inclination to think that time has character.
Each second can be thought of as just another second, each minute, just another minute.
And yet none of our experience resembles this.
Or rather, the portion of our experience that resembles this is so limited that it's actually disabling to think in this way.
I have a couple of friends who are very capable mathematicians,
and my friendship with them, because I am not a capable mathematician, has introduced me to concepts like manifolds in completeness,
grassmanians, Hamiltonians, and many other ideas that seem fundamentally important to fold into our lexicons,
but tend to remain in the specialized fields from which they emerge, mathematics, or physics, and so on.
And I find this deeply troubling because even relativity, which is now somewhat, you know, what, how old is relativity?
Perhaps 80, 90 years old, there are concepts in relativity that if transferred into our collective representations,
would radically alter what we think about and how we understand identity of things we are capable of distinguishing,
and also unity, how the things combine to form situations.
It seems to me we are still thinking in terms that are effectively Euclidean, or even pre-Euclidean.
When we think about identity itself, what things are, what they do, what they don't do, and so on,
consider the idea of a car for a moment.
We think of it as a vehicle, and when we are using the vehicle,
surely it's true that we transport ourselves through the ages of the vehicle.
But what is a car when it is not moving?
Is it truly a vehicle when it's just sitting there with no one in it, or does it become a vehicle when a driver enters?
And this brings up another feature of the problem that I want to orbit here, which is sometimes the things we call the same thing
are actually so different that we can imagine we would be much more intelligent if we had different words for these differences, right?
But in our languages, identity is sticky, so the fact that we defined a car as a vehicle
disinclines us to think of it as something different when it isn't being a vehicle.
But surely the identity which seems to be based on function is actually only partly based on function.
It's based on the aspect of function that we highlighted.
An indigenous person being introduced to the idea of cars might see them as extremely dangerous for all kinds of different reasons.
And what cars do and are in the world has many features that are not captured by the idea of a vehicle.
Walking around the city streets, seeing the houses surrounded by cars.
I remember one day it suddenly occurred to me that those things resemble viruses connected to the membrane of a cell, right?
If the city block is the cell and the houses are the membrane, the viruses are at the surface of the membrane.
Of course, inside the house there is life and in the backyard there may be vegetation and animals and plants and so on.
But it's very disturbing to see and think about the roads as a damaging result of having built cars.
And think about the relationship between the humans and the cars and all of the resources that the humans must dedicate to the cars
and all the resources that are abstracted from the living environment to support these machines and so on.
It turns out that they're vastly more expensive than anything the idea of their monetary expense could possibly communicate to us.
Even though the monetary expense is also real to us moderns.
So in a way I'm asking an important question, when is a car not a car?
Now, this brings to mind for me the topological model of identity where if we use some word, for example the word dream,
we can immediately see that there are many different kinds of dreams and some of them are so different from what we ordinarily will think when we hear this word,
that the person experiencing them after the vision or the dream fades might reasonably think that was not a regular dream.
And here again we see the idea of normalization in language.
All things called this thing are the same thing always, but it's blatantly obvious they are not.
For a human or animal being struck by a car, a car is no longer a vehicle. See the problem?
And certainly with any of the class words we use, dream, food, friend, parent,
we're inclined to apply the senses of the word that are in the definition in the dictionary almost automatically.
Simply because they match up with the collective representations we've been trained to employ.
But I know that my mind, while one might say it is always a mind, there are certainly throughout the day many, many transformations.
And it depends on what my mind actually is since it is a transforming thing, meaning it transforms in various situations or over time.
It becomes really important to realize that many of the moments of consciousness that I experience are not particularly mind-like.
And in different circumstances my mind may approach something resembling lucidity and in others almost the opposite of lucidity is there.
So when we think about truth, the problem that, again, back to the concentric circle model,
in one circle truth means that the statement is coherent.
But its coherence is often dependent on it matching it up with the collective representations with which we are familiar.
But there's another form of truth that we can see in the aspect of our mind that is determining whether something is true or false.
This is a bigger circle than statements which are true, right?
If one circle is statements which are true there's a circle above that or beyond it in which the evaluative faculties that determine the truth or falsity of an idea are active.
And those faculties form a kind of meta-truth.
Now this I find fascinating.
Now this relates very strongly with Owen Barfield's elucidations.
Because us moderns are inclined to suppose that if a statement is not true it should be disposed of.
And this may be more prevalent in men than it is in women.
Possibly due to many different factors, right?
Scripting and culture, the traditional roles of males and females.
But I think it may also have a direct relationship with differences in brain structure.
Now once again, if we say males and females in the modern context, at least in the United States at this moment and perhaps in Canada,
we may meet with a complex phenomena that is emergent in modern culture which in a way is the resistance to the collective representations surrounding the idea of male and female.
And it's easy to understand that a biological male may have feelings, desires, experiences, or even communications that according to the collective representations are not masculine.
Throughout my life I've always been someone who cries when I'm deeply moved, sometimes in my experience of relation with other humans and the beauty or the painfulness of those relations.
And if I cry with other men, men born in the 50s and before, and maybe even in the 60s, will often react with something resembling terror.
And this is because in the collective representations of those times crying was considered a thing associated with babies or females.
So when we see these emergent models of gender that are non-binary, there's a very complex transformation of idea and collective representations that are traditional.
And the transformation, one of the things it is doing is introducing a continuum to a situation that was previously on or off, so to speak, right, one or zero, penis or vagina.
And so this emergent phenomenon in Western culture is very peculiar, and I think it's both useful and dangerous in various ways.
There is the risk of doing the same thing backwards, right, of assertion that there is no interval, there is no difference between men and women.
And many intelligent people are very concerned about this because in nature we find both situations.
We find situations which seem mechanically binary, there are males and there are females.
And then we see situations which are hermaphroditic, there are organisms which seem to have both male and female reproductive systems.
And then there are anomalies, things that don't fit in the current model.
For example, I think it's called parthenogenesis or pathogenesis where the females of certain species including praying mantises under some conditions self-impregnate, right, they simply produce young.
There's a thing called, there's a certain very small snake which I think is blind, a Brahmini snake, if I remember correctly.
And this is an organism in which it does not seem there are males.
So many people are concerned in different ways around this transformation of our collective representations surrounding gender.
And the conflict is meaningful, but there are also very dangerous features of both the traditional view and the views which are emerging in our culture.
There are cultures and societies at this time.
And part of the danger is the insistence on declaration.
And another part of the danger is insistence on non-declaration.
Whenever we move toward explicit models, we're in danger of losing the capacity for sensitivity and insight and becoming ideologues.
