Hello everybody. Thank you for joining me. I am very grateful for the opportunity to
explore and learn together. And I no longer take it for granted as I am getting older.
It is, you know, when we are young, perhaps one of the finest encapsulations of this,
of our situation as time-bound organisms, or as apparently time-bound organisms,
is in the song Time by Pink Floyd from Dark Side of the Moon, Circa What, 1970-ish, I'm guessing.
One of the first LP records I ever purchased. I believe that I was 10 or 11 when I purchased that album.
And I purchased it based not on familiarity with the music, but on the aesthetics of the album cover,
which was a common mode of determining when I was younger what I might like to listen to.
This probably sounds incredibly bizarre to modern young people, younger people,
because none of them would imagine that they would buy music based on an image,
rather than on having heard it before, or something similar to it.
But this is fairly common for us, and we also bought books based on their covers,
particularly science fiction novels, that had the best art by far, the coolest and weirdest and most trans-sigenic,
right, mind-generating art, mind-form-generating.
And let's see here, if I can remember the lyrics.
Kicking around on a piece of ground in your hometown.
That's probably not the first lyric.
Yeah, I can't remember. I was actually going through it in my head a while ago,
but I have so many ideas in my mind at the moment that are woven together
by having just been listening to Kurt Gimongal talking to Stephen Wolfram, the inventor of Mathematica,
and one of the primary prodigies of our time.
Let's see, kicking around on a piece of ground in your hometown, looking for something or someone to show you the way.
The sun is the same in a relative way, but you're older, shorter of breath and one day closer to death.
And you can look up the lyrics to this tune if you don't know them,
but they're very profound because what happens to us almost invariably,
unless we are very clear-minded, right, unless we have, for example, a long tradition of meditation or clarifying our awareness,
what eventually happens is there's a strange kind of tumble down.
It's as if we're rolling down a mountainside and we're unaware of it, so it becomes trance-like.
And then somewhere near the bottom, we suddenly become aware that as in the lyrics for this song,
ten years have got behind you. No one told you when to run. You missed the starting gun.
And we suddenly realize, and we will have encounters with death throughout our lives,
but we suddenly realize, ah, I am going to die. I will die. This body will pass away.
And possibly soon, right, no longer. It's some day in a distant future, distant-seeming future.
I will meet my end as a physical being at least.
And so there's this very strange process which happens as we age,
and our societies are extremely cruel to the elderly.
They are vicious. We are deprived of common social experiences and meaningful roles.
You know, retirement is in a way a sort of long-term euthanasia process for many people.
Now some people avoid that. They make enough money that they, like, get a, you know, get a yacht or something, right?
And they just sail around the world. I know a couple who are doing that right now.
A very interesting couple. I'll call them H and D.
And I've had a few fascinating conversations with them.
H was a civil engineer, if I remember correctly, and D was a psychotherapist.
And both of them had very beautiful desires to make a better world.
I think we come to birth and life with such desires naturally.
They get ground down for most of us over time by circumstance.
So as I am getting older, I am profoundly aware of my mortality.
My father recently passed away, which was kind of an unforeseen catastrophe
because the males in my line tend to be very long-lived.
And I expected him to dwell in the body, you know, probably into his 80s, as one of his mother's brothers did.
But COVID combined with comorbidities took him out in, let's see, he did not, he died in early 2022.
Alright, so I was listening to the very beginning of a podcast with Kurt Jaimungal, brilliant polymath like human being,
on his theories of everything podcast, talking to Stephen Wolfram about observers and entropy.
And one of the things that Wolfram was beginning to talk about, I've only listened to the beginning of the podcast,
was his attempt to characterize what it means not merely to be an observer, quote unquote, but an observer like us, a human observer.
And as he was speaking, I began to have a series of insights, which is why I decided to record,
to get on to the recording bit rather than the listening bit, to become active rather than...
Well, I like to think I'm an active listener on a good day.
So one of the things, let's see here, that occurred to me when Wolfram was talking,
an example of like how to measure a gas, and he was saying that how to measure the pressure in a system of molecules.
And he was saying, well, you can put a piston off to the side, and you can attempt to measure the aggregate pressure,
because the molecules are doing all kinds of separate weird things we imagine in our theories.
The only thing that actually turns out to be important, and I think this is where I started to have insights,
because whenever I hear human scientists making determinations about what is important or the only important thing,
I immediately recoil and think, no, probably not true, functionally true, for the mechanical concerns.
And he mentioned something about our motivations. He said we want a structural narrative that makes sense to us or something like this.
And I realized, no, what we usually want is something that is mechanically appropriable, right?
We can appropriate the knowledge to produce mechanical innovations and so forth, technology.
In other words, it's a kind of competition where who gets to the mechanical implementation first.
Now, sometimes we are, as a species, when I say we, I mean all scientists or the species, as expressed in scientific endeavor, something like this,
there's a kind of a competition for what we call discovery, which is very interesting,
because it literally means to take the cover off, to remove the occlusion, to unblind, and innovation,
which means to be like first on the scene with a mechanical implementation of a scientific discovery,
whether that's a pharmacological molecule, or a weapon, or a device, or a computational paradigm, so forth.
So in that sense, we can be disoriented as researchers and discoverers.
Obviously, there are different branches of concern, not just one.
There are people, for instance, who want to know what is, like, what is the nature of birth and death, or what is the nature of time,
not to make, not for the sake of implementing machines, but for the sake of awareness or intelligence, understanding, comprehension.
So, you know, there are many different ways to be a concerned hominid.
We have people like Ramakrishna, who, rather than sitting around having abstract theories about things,
become transformed by the quest for the direct experience of origin, or the Godhead, or Krishna, or Shiva, or Kali,
or one of the complex family that humans anthropomorphize in a sense,
or deify the angels, the devas, the jini, the jinn, God, herself, themselves.
No one should say that, right? It's supposed to be just one. It's just one.
It's all unity at the layer of origin, which makes sense to me and my experience.
I am kind of both, right? I'm very interested in science and awareness and cognition,
and the possibilities for the transformation of human awareness and experience during our lifetime.
And as I was listening to Wolfram and him talking about the generalization of the force of the gas on the piston,
and that this was the only important thing, I began to have sort of an insight,
which related to what I suspect underlies radical scientific discoveries such as general and special relativity,
quantum electrodynamics, quantum field theory, quantum mechanics,
and problems in human linguistic cognition, a relationship between these,
and problems in human linguistic cognition, which almost invariably are problems of
miss the malformation in awareness, consciousness, or language, maybe all three, of identity, right?
The big problem here, the old owl, I'm so glad I brought my umbrella now that it's starting to rain.
I carried it for hours, unused, and now suddenly it is useful.
The great horned owl, yeah, making his mating calls.
This is the moon in which the raptors mate here in California, and many other events also,
similar events take place, the water birds also kind of get it going on.
Okay, where am I?
Yes, the problem of what-ness, what something is, and also this is a similar problem of who-ness.
Oh, there's a raccoon.
Now, see, I've just done the problem.
I saw a shadow.
I compared, we might say, I compared the shadow to many previous experiences.
I made a categorical derivation, raccoon, according to the shape of the shadow and its movement profile.
And then I, presuming that I have determined the categorical identity of the phenomena,
I did what most humans do and abandoned it.
This is the problem with what-ness and who-ness.
And many other of the question words, of which there are seven,
and if you can find another, by all means, chime in.
I'm all about discovery, not about pre-existing biases.
I usually place how at the end, but they are what, who, when, where, which, why, how.
Notice they all begin with W, and you can think of that as doubling yourself in consciousness,
and now you have sort of a questioner and an answerer aspect.
That W is almost like doubling the self in consciousness.
They all have the second letter H in English.
English is probably the only language in which this occurs.
That doesn't mean it's insignificant.
And only one of them begins with H.
And the H sound is usefully conceived of as beginning, origin.
The ha, which makes breath, myriad little motes of moisture suspended in the atmosphere.
Imagine that these land on a mirror so that they all reflect the surface of the mirror,
each other, and the one who emitted them.
This particular formulation was illustrated to me by a non-human intelligence.
This is why I hold it in high regard, in part.
Though the experience of the revelation of this is nothing like what happens when you hear the English words.
Alright, so yes, the problem of identity.
This is the primary problem in consciousness.
And we get it wrong most of the time because it's primarily due to linguistic, cultural, and social tradition.
It's also due perhaps to the left hemisphere's desire to have a graspable derivation rather than a participatory relationship.
We might call this problem the toolification of identity.
Unfortunately for many of us, as we acquire language,
we learn to ignore phenomena that we have a determinate relation with the identity, function, origin of.
I was discussing with a friend last night the peculiar, the very peculiar problem
of for some months in my Facebook newsfeed, what a terrible thing that is, by the way, on my phone.
So on my computer, I use a thing called FB Purity, which is fabulous, brilliant.
No ads lets you filter the newsfeed, all kinds of amazing features.
I strongly recommend it if you look at Facebook on your computer or perhaps a tablet.
It doesn't work on the phone.
So in the phone I get advertisements and all kinds of garbage.
I rarely use either.
But there was a problem some months ago that was truly fascinating where in the Facebook newsfeed
there would be a horizontal scroll, scrollable band of advertisements for objects.
Invariably all of these objects were, the whole band was an advertisement for a truly bizarre phenomenon called TEMU, TAMU.
So much to say here.
So my son had the idea that the sort of hilarious half-joking conspiracy theory that China discovered about Americans that what we primarily do is shop.
In order to destroy our minds, they started packing every possible online shopping experience with unimaginable quantities of similar items so that there's no way to make a selection.
There's no way to make a reasonable or intelligent selection.
And this would slowly destroy the minds of Americans, maybe more quickly than usual, or they might otherwise be expected these days.
So what was happening in my Facebook newsfeed was I would see a horizontal band of objects and they all looked like technological objects.
And it did not say what they were and I could not even determine what class of objects these were.
I could not determine the capacity to categorize the object according to its class.
Is it a tool? Is it a machine? Is it a weapon? Is it a light show? Is it a repair device?
There would be 10 or 15 objects in the entire horizontal band and I would be unable to determine what even one of them was.
Why? How could that even happen?
It was like a kind of science fiction adventure that was as terrifying and stupefying as it was fascinating.
I have never been faced with a series of photographs of a series of physical objects that I cannot even determine what one of them is, does, or is for.
So I think my son's theory, I think there's some juice to my son's theory.
And it may not merely be China, but if China wanted to wreck American cognition, one of the best ways to do that would just be to make it impossible to shop for familiar things.
And my son gave some examples where he was like, you know, I tried to buy a hoodie and I couldn't find...
And I've had this experience as well. I tried the other night to purchase a cotton beanie, a woven cotton beanie.
19 billion different non-cotton beanies all from China showed up.
Whenever I've tried to buy any object, an air purifier, for example, or a fan or a heater or whatever, and I go, for example, to Amazon,
there's a million, there's catastrophic Chinese over choice, right?
And not all of the devices or things are made in China. Some of them are made in other places, perhaps Taiwan or Korea or somewhere.
And when I tried to find cotton beanies that were made in the United States, I got no results on Amazon the other night.
So I think my son's joke is unfortunately not as hilarious and profoundly more threatening than it might superficially appear.
Again, you can see that in this case, a military power with an interest in weakening the might and the market prevalence of the United States doesn't have to fight a war of weapons.
There are much less expensive wars that allow you to win terrain and power without the danger of engaging in physical conflict or the necessity of spending trillions of dollars on a physical military upkeep.
And that shit is super fucking expensive. Just look at the military expenditures of the United States over the past 20 years, and we could have rebuilt the nation 16 times over, probably, with that money.
And forged something resembling an intelligent society, right? That would cost maybe one hundred and fiftieth of that money.
So yeah, there's lots of ways to win wars that don't require physical conflict, even though they may eventually escalate to such.
And in the war of marketplace attrition, China is certainly a devastating opponent.
What I was thinking of when I was listening to Wolfram were a couple of insights, and the first one was, how do we arrive at insights that give us the moment of aha?
Now, there's all kinds of features, unexplored features, because they are features of identity rather than physics relative to Einstein's theories.
Particularly, there's a broad array of insights about the nature of time, and either its locality, non-universality, or modal features of its modal anatomy that humans never picked up on.
They certainly didn't translate even the least of those features into their common understandings about identity or location.
There's a whole field of undiscovered astonishment about daily mundane features of experience that we have failed to, as a species, most of us have failed to introduce to our awareness.
But one of the things that immediately became clear when Wolfram said about the gases and the piston, that it's the aggregate force that's the only thing we're interested in.
The only reason that's the only thing we're interested in is because we're thinking in terms of machines.
If we're thinking in terms of understanding, and our goal isn't war, machine-making, etc., then many other features of the situation are certainly interesting and profound.
And this made me realize that in my own experience of insight, which is something I'm deeply fascinated by, what happens isn't the generalization that Wolfram was highlighting.
What's the aggregate force exerted on the piston?
That's a generalization of the activity of the molecules in the system, in the reference frame.
But what generates insight for me isn't merely generalization, and we have huge problems with this.
You can see that in the whatification or the whoification of our experiences, generalization is fundamental.
I don't know what the phenomenon of the raccoon might be. It could be 900 different things.
All I'm doing is reducing that tree to a single branch.
What kind of animal in the modern Linnaean biologic human categorization protocols is this?
Now, the actual phenomena could be anything, because until I have the raccoon in hand, it's not clear what its ontological nature actually is, and even once I have it in hand, it's not clear.
Phenomena are so staggeringly strange in their basis that our standard classification systems are both a convenience and a what?
A buffer against the explosive propagation of possibility, participation, because participation changes our experience of phenomena dramatically.
So this branched derivational array of habits that we are trained in as children is a bulwark against the true astonishing depth, which is infinite, diversity, which is infinite, possibility for relation, infinite.
We're faced with all these infinities and languages away to rapidly disambiguate and produce reliable, determinate, relatively functional manipulables in consciousness.
That's very useful, but it's also very dangerous. It leads to forms of suppositional ignorance that quickly become devastating to the possibilities of intelligence and insight.
So what I'm usually doing when I have insights, and I'll give an example of one that occurred last night in a conversation with my roommate as soon as this train goes past.
What I'm doing is I'm going back and forth from the general to the specific to the general to the specific, so I move to the general, I get insights on the specific that are uncommon from there, then I move back to the specific and I get insights on the generalizations that are difficult to perceive from that position.
So I was thinking last night, what were we talking about?
We were talking about what my roommate and I refer to as the phenomenon, by which we usually mean UFOs, aliens, and possibly other branches of what might be thought of as the paranormal.
