And because it's clear to me that various forms of encryption are common in nature and it's very important to be able to have an actually private conversation, particularly with other intelligences,
and other intelligences are aware of this. A great example of this principle is in the science fiction novel, Macroscope by Pierce Anthony, in which humans discover a signal in time space that was clearly produced by an infinitely intelligent civilization,
or a comparatively infinitely intelligent civilization. And the signal, most people can't make anything of it and most people are safe from it, they can't be harmed by it.
But anyone intelligent enough to begin to understand the signal first undergoes a radical upward cascade of prodigy and then just before the signal destroys their mind.
And the story is about someone who finds a way around what we might think of as the encryption of the signal.
Now, science fiction authors are also authors of highly ironic fiction. One example from the 50s, there are plenty of examples in the television show Alfred Hitchcock Presents.
Now, who's the guy that wrote a lot of those? Sleesar? S-L-E-A-S-A-R? Maybe? Haven't read much of his work, but I was a huge fan of Frederick Brown when I was a kid, and he's a brilliant author of short stories, mysteries, and a few novels.
He's extremely prolific. He's probably written, I don't know, 3, 400 amazingly ironic short stories. He's the author famous for writing the shortest science fiction story in history, which is something like The Last Mountain Earth Sits Down to Dinner, and there is a knock on his door.
So Brown uses, the science fiction authors utilize the method that I'm talking about, and the insight that I had last night was a science fiction story insight.
Hey.
Hey.
In which humans establish contact with an extra solar intelligence of some kind, and for many years now, we've been having meaningful communications with them that we believe, we have every reason to believe that we are understanding their signals and they are understanding ours.
Because the conversation is experienced by us, we don't know what their experience is, they don't come to meet us, but it's experienced by us as intelligible, useful, friendly, so forth.
And then, after some, you know, a decade of this communication going on, a mathematician who's always been suspicious of this communication discovers and proves that what's been going on for the past 10 years is not us understanding their signals.
What has been going on is us misinterpreting the encryption protocols they're using to keep the conversation private.
So every single signal we've received that appeared to us to be a reasonable statement in English, or, you know, whatever language, was actually, we're just reading the superficial encryption.
We have no idea what the message is actually saying.
It turns out that there's an error where their encryption, the structure of their encryption matches up with a protocol of interpretation that we are applying, thus misconstruing the actual signal content entirely for decades.
And it's very likely that something like this is going on in physics.
We are interpreting the information we can access according to our purposes.
And many of these purposes are troubling and possibly disoriented.
Now, here is the seed of a fabulously fun science fiction story, which I've kind of wrecked by stating it, and I'm very unlikely that I'm the first person to have imagined such a situation.
In fact, I might argue that Einstein's insights about relativity were very likely related to his awareness that we have misconstrued features of reality that are fundamental.
And we have misconstrued them to such a degree that we've fundamentally misunderstood the nature of physical systems and so forth.
For today, I'm coming close to where I'd like to conclude my sharing as I have arrived home.
But I hope that these ideas will find fertile ground in your imagination and lead you to your own experiences of insight, awareness, the power of humor and irony in our common experience,
and the preciousness of each moment and day in which we are still embodied persons with apparently distinct identities.
Thank you for joining me.
This entire message is encrypted. When you discover the mode of the encryption, it will lead you far beyond this message.
I wish you the best adventures and a life filled with love, joy, play, creativity, wonder and discovery.
Bye-bye for now.
