I didn't succeed, at least not yet. So be it.
It can be hard to remember in crisis that challenge sort of has this bipolar potential. It's not the only, it's not merely a dual, you know, a dual polarity.
But it's easy to think in those terms for humans, so we too often do.
We can either rise, so to speak, gain coherence, synchronization, harmony, or we can fall into decoherence, desynchronization, disharmony.
So in a sense, the challenges are opportunities for us to grow and also to establish the practice and the habit of remaining calm when things go sideways,
especially when they go badly sideways, because that is when we most need coherent, intelligent, thoughtful, compassionate, you know, being in presence with our life and all of life,
and with death, and with time, and with the sky, and with all beings.
In crisis is when we most need the stability that seems so difficult to nurture in such situations.
It's always valuable, but it's vastly more valuable in the midst of catastrophe, and our people have entered a time of catastrophe.
I strongly suspect that the relative calm and peace we have long known has been permanently and irrevocably shattered, and that wave of trouble will continue to build and royal and crash upon the shores of our lives, and the lives of those we love.
So it's never been more important for us to foster hope together and help each other to recover our capacity to have faith, not necessarily in the religious sense, in the emotional sense, or the interior sense.
But not only is all is not lost, but no matter what may come, we will stand together in dignity and love, with intelligence and foresight and forbearance and patience, with calm.
And if there is no hope, then we will become that hope. And if there is no light, then we will become that light. And if there's no compassion, then we will become the compassion.
And if there's no awareness, we will become the awareness, together. And even if there are no others in our lives, even if we are completely isolated somehow, or very isolated, in the midst of myriads of bodies of humans, right?
Because this is the common situation. We're isolated among myriads of people. So ridiculous. It's like dying of starvation in the supermarket, you know? Or you can't have anything because you don't have the money, or, you know, dying of dehydration in the ocean, because you're surrounded by water, but you can't drink it or it'll kill you.
These are the peculiar kinds of elemental circumstances that sometimes arise in our human lives, and also in our epochs, right? In the time being, the body of time.
And again, you know, often when I'm writing, or when I'm making these videos, I do imagine an audience that has some interest in the topics at hand, or that might have some interest.
But often I'm also writing to myself to remind myself I'm speaking with myself, right? Because the aspects of me that are intelligent and capable are not always the aspects dominating my moment-to-moment consciousness, right?
So I have to make a space where the intelligence of my interiority and my companions and allies and teachers and students, even though there are no teachers or students, really,
the spirit of those with whom we learn and for whom we live, and those who we would protect and care for and watch over, right?
And also the spirits of my allies who watch over me. Such a profound thing, the seeing from above thing.
The birds are always teaching me about this. They do it for each other all the time, right? One will go up high, the other will stay down low.
Back and forth, they send the signal. Now they have both worlds covered, and if there's one even above them in the air, it's even better, right?
They form the body of unity, the intelligent body of unity.
The challenges are surely upon us in general, and each of us will have a unique specific experience of this, and some of us things are going to probably seem like they're mostly fine.
That's the weird situation with being in the living world.
Over here, you can have someone who's dying. Over here, you can have someone who's having an orgasm.
Over here, you have someone who's just, you know, gotten the six-figure job.
Over here, you have someone whose 15-year marriage is about to collapse.
Over here, you have someone who's being raped. Over here, you have someone who's rescuing someone from being hurt, right?
It's just the whole soup contains all of the flavors. All of the flavors.
And our own life uniquely contains all of the flavors, differently at different times.
This is the little pool.
This is the little pool.
I was so happy the other day when I came here to discover tadpoles in the water.
There might even already be some frogs. This makes me really, really happy.
It's a kind of very local happiness. It doesn't pervade my whole existence, but the local happiness is good.
These cat tails, they make pollen.
Pollen. Pollen is very good. Pollen makes me very happy. Very happy that there's pollen.
Let us encourage each other to stay the course and let us encourage ourselves to walk in awareness, kindness, intelligence, gentleness, and hope.
Especially when we feel hopeless and bereft. Especially when we are suffering and the fear of loss and death is strong upon us.
Especially in these times.
Then we can grow. And when hardship comes, we will weather it well. Even if it is to be disaster, even if it is to be death, we can weather it well together.
Even if we are physically apart.
Thank you for joining me. I look forward to walking and learning together again very soon. Bye bye for now.
