reprieve from the prison of personal identity.
Now again, I don't want to make any kind of claims like, well, we should just get rid
of that.
That's not what I'm saying at all.
In fact, I'm saying something very different.
I'm saying a one-winged bird doesn't fly well.
To actually understand what it means to have identity and to be able to embody that and
experience it meaningfully, we have to have something at least similar to its polarity.
We have to have something that is to that thing's right hand as my left hand is to me.
And of course, we do.
In the waking world, we use narratives to disambiguate narratives and lexicons, language
and ideas, concepts and so on to disambiguate.
But at night, when we fall asleep, we begin to dream.
And when we begin to dream, ambiguity is reintroduced into our sense of ability, identity, history,
future, relationships.
And this is an unimaginably useful insight.
When I first was able to say something like this, it shocked me.
This is the kind of thing that most of us are unconsciously aware of, that we have no
way to form either conscious experience of or description or language about, that might
help us to recognize it in consciousness.
This relationship between disambiguation and reambiguation.
Now the other night, I was in a conversation with two friends and we were talking about
experiences and thoughts about the nature of dreaming.
And I began to realize, as we spoke together about stories we had read when we were children,
a very unusual kind of thought began to dawn on me and it took a while to become formal
enough to be disambiguated to the degree that I could actually formulate it in language.
And what that thought was, was something like this, narratives, we use them for all kinds
of things in our mental experience and in our social experience and in our personal experience.
We make use of narratives.
Characters are in this sense tool-like.
And some might argue that in a way not dissimilar to how our technologies end up making use
of us, one could argue cars make use of humans to reproduce, even though they're not a proper
they, they're objects.
But because of the unique relationship with convenience and perhaps manual facility that
humans have, cars make use of our species to reproduce.
And so too do narratives and ideas.
And this is the idea that underlies a range of concepts that can be explored in different
ways, some of them more useful than others.
The concept of a meme is a contagious media object these days, but prior to that, it was
probably initially formulated in that way by Richard Dawkins, a man who for all of his
intelligence is three quarters blind, in my view.
But we could say that narratives and ideas, when exposed to human hosts and populations,
they use us as reproductive terrain, actually, and reproductive organs, right?
We become the reproductive organs of narratives.
And that's what a political system is, and that's what a religion is.
And that's often largely what a philosophy is.
All of the aspects of our common human experience are deeply informed by narratives, and most
of them we didn't form, right?
In other words, we caught them.
We caught them like a disease, and then we reproduced them, just as in a way analogous
to how a contagious person communicates a disease.
Looking through more gnats, I'm fascinated by those creatures, they're really amazing.
Their relationship to sound is just, I never overcome my fascination with it.
I can sit for hours and sing with gnats and just be completely content.
So the insight that I had that kind of blew me away, because I've thought very carefully
for many years about the relationship between memory and identity, and what we actually
call intelligence or creativity or imagination, all of these things are behaviors, they're
mental activities that depend on not just memory, but specific forms of relation with
memory, and specific purposes of relation with memory.
And so, it's no accident that the Greeks called nemosony the mother of the muses, because
she is memory.
And by the way, this is associated with water, in case that isn't clear to you.
No pun intended.
This is associated with water, in case that isn't clear.
That wasn't a total accident.
But this stuff up here, there's actually a lot of water up there, right?
We call it clouds, and there's a lot of water vapor around here, we call it moisture.
The sky was understood by the ancients, the metaphor with which they understood the sky
varied from people to people in time to time, but was very commonly one related to an ocean.
It was the sky ocean.
And so, nemosony and memory was associated with the sky, and in case it isn't clear to
you, the idea of constellations, which we pretend were used fundamentally for navigation?
No, navigation was a side effect.
Navigation was a little toy off to the side of what the starfield actually comprised for
many of our ancestral progenitors.
The starfield was a memory palace.
They could paint stories and techniques on that starfield the way I can paint lyrics
on music.
And so it became for them, there's a living creature here.
It was for them a meta library.
It wasn't merely a library, it was an extension of their own memory.
And so too, if you talk with indigenous people, they will tell you blatantly, explicitly,
that living places and the shapes and forms of relationships in those places and the specific
landmarks, that even those that transform over time, these were a mind they accessed
as though it were intimately, personally familiar to them.
And so if you were to take, for example, an elder and drive them through the ancestral
lands, they would begin emitting profusions of memorial information about what happened
here and when and how it happened and who was there and what the circumstances were
and what the context is and all these things.
So that the living places were both companions and forms of memory.
So memory underlies in a fundamental way our experience and the potentials of our humanity.
And most of us will have very little experience with this throughout our lives, we'll have
a very casual relationship with these topics, a utilitarian one.
We will think we know who we are, we will believe the narratives we tell ourselves or
have been told by others, we will circulate them and we will live and die in this unfortunately
deprived circumstance, but we don't have to.
We can make other choices together and part of the opportunity to make other choices begins
with being able to think in more complex and useful ways that bear a greater likeness
to our humanity and our intelligence and our innate, the faculties innate to us and the
faculties that are potentials within us, but that don't awaken unless they're properly
fertilized and let's be clear, most of our faculties are of this type.
So you might think you have like 50 or 60 or 80 or 100 different things you can do or
become, no there are billions of things we can do and become.
The list of faculties that is native to the human animal is infinite.
And if there is something astonishingly advanced about the kind of animal we are, it is this.
How unfortunate it is for our people and for the living world that the faculties we've
thus far commonly expressed are mostly or at least too often like diseases.
And in case it isn't clear, diseases aren't faculties.
No one would pretend that dementia is a faculty.
And yet we're suffering something like at the species level, something very similar,
the loss of the potential to embody the endless jungles of potential intelligence and behavior
in relationships native to our incarnate human existence.
Now I can sing the praises of memory for hours, but I want to get to a key insight that occurred
to me last night and it's whenever something like this happens I feel like I won the lottery.
I feel so lucky to have the chance to not merely notice but to recall and perhaps even
communicate about something this astonishing.
As I was listening to my friends and we were talking about reading a lot of science fiction
when we were younger and stuff like this and other stories of wonder, it suddenly occurred
to me that narratives structure memory and different forms of structured memory are
capable of different kinds of faculties.
They're capable of different expressions of creativity or imagination or intelligence
or noticing the iconic stereotype of the Indian tracker who can track a grasshopper
through a field.
I don't take this as fiction.
This is an example of the kinds of faculties available to human beings, but they depend
on having structured memory in such a way that it benefits from multiple underlying
potential forms that in combination become a superposition over what would commonly be
our experience of perception or understanding or awareness.
And so I suddenly realized that the thousands of science fiction stories I read as a child
were structuring my memory.
They were building the precursors of non-human intelligences within me and eventually one
day there was an unimaginably profound catalyzation event where those potentials integrated and
produced something beyond my capacity to explain or describe.
So the point that I want to make is that the narratives that we're exposed to, there
are different species of narratives and they have different purpose of relationships with
memory and as we are exposed to these narratives, the underlying structures and capacities and
purposes for which we will interact with our own memories change.
And this implies a technology, a cognitive technology and a relational, like an auto-relational
or a self-relational, but also a public face of this technology, a socially relational
aspect to the relationship between the narratives we encounter, share and sustain together and
the underlying transformations of memory they induce.
This is one of the most shocking realizations I've had in years.
The potential for revolutionary transformation implicit in this one insight is infinite.
I'm not claiming that I'll be able to make the best use of it or that we can change the
course of our species, but this is the kind of insight that creates that possibility.
The insight that the narratives that we compose, inherit, exchange and transform together.
They restructure the possibilities of our relationship with memory and this kind of insight
immediately explains all kinds of historical phenomenon that we are familiar with.
We can see entire peoples throughout history absolutely captivated by some narrative and
once thus captivated, perfectly willing to sacrifice themselves or obliterate forests
in the oceans and to kill their neighbors wantonly, to believe themselves the chosen
people or the chosen person or the avenger of the divine or the one who will see into
the nature of light and time.
These narratives fundamentally structure the purposes for which we relate with memory and
thus the results of our mental activity, the character, the accomplishments, the deprivations.
So we don't know who we are just by telling ourselves stories, though that's part of how
we know.
We know something of who we are by the way the stories we tell structure our relationships
with memory.
And surely there are kinds of narratives, so one of the things I wanted to mention is
it should be obvious there are different species of narratives.
Some of these have an incredibly deleterious effect on human creativity or insight or awareness
or intelligence, some of them are relatively benign, some of them have a profusely beneficial
effect on the possibilities of human intelligence or creativity or understanding or awareness.
And obviously we need to learn how to differentiate.
You can pretty much tell if you're walking down some path like I am now and you see an
animal, you can determine whether or not that animal mostly represents either a threat or
you are neutral to it or it represents an opportunity.
And there's lots of different opportunities besides hunting the animal by the way.
You can follow the animal and learn things, astonishing things.
Now the narratives one has about the relationship between human beings and nature, those might
be among the most profoundly important narratives to resurrect, to enhance because mostly what
we have are utilitarian narratives, particularly at the level of our supercultures.
Nature is just something to be turned into commodities which are in turn transformed
into power or profit.
That's a game that will get everything dead right quick with our current population levels
and is a pretty bad game no matter what your population level is.
But what I want to imply or highlight is just this, we need to learn how to differentiate
between narratives that cripple or repurpose our intelligence in a very negative way, narratives
that are relatively neutral, presuming there are such things, and narratives that can expand
and enhance and advance our potentials for intelligent cooperation, for intelligent social
cooperation, for awareness, for enhancing the health of our memory and the purposes for
which we relate with it.
We can learn together, I know that we can, and this kind of understanding that I'm here
presenting is the spark that lights this fuse.
Once we realize that narratives structure memory, that certain forms of memory contribute
to or inhibit certain possibilities of human awareness or intelligence, and that some narratives
are toxic and can be weaponized against entire peoples, others are relatively neutral, still
others are, what is the right word?
Others catalyze and nurture forms of intelligence and awareness that exist as potential within
us, that for generations of human beings have lived and died without tasting for themselves.
And for me this is such a wonderful insight, so provocative and compelling that I just feel
absolutely lucky to have stumbled on it in this conversation the other night.
I've thought about memory very deeply for many years, I'm profoundly aware of the incredibly
intense relationship between individuals, societies and narratives, it's almost impossible
to not be aware of that in a climate where people are fighting over political ideologies
or religious ideologies or philosophical ideologies, it's blatantly obvious that if I had to say
one of the things that makes us unusual animals, it would be our relationship with narratives.
And we furiously, contagiously exchange them, but nobody is paying attention to that process
from above it, and if we move to that position above it, if we suspend our own relationship
