Hey everybody.
I am here in Golden Gate Park.
Here you can see a little bit of what's going on.
There's a lot of people out here enjoying the sunshine, observing what we presently
refer to as social distancing.
It's beautiful weather.
It's springtime.
It's the right on the verge of the full moon in the moon cycle that I believe is the duck
moon.
I do not recall the sophisticated multi-syllabic black foot word for this moon at the moment,
nor am I going to interrupt what I'm doing to look that up.
Someday I'll remember all those words.
It is good to be outside.
I think in black foot, is the word good.
So I still have a little bit of black foot vocabulary, very modest portion I'll admit,
but precious to me.
For even though it is not the language of my people, it is a language so if I could
even tell who my people were.
And by the way, if I were going to tell who were my people, how would I go about that
exactly?
One answer is family history, right?
I would inquire of my forebears, and they've told me things about who our people are that
I remember, but most of them have passed on.
And the carriers of our stories are our elders.
They're the carriers of the narrative history of our families.
And so for many of us, both our elders themselves, certainly, and these stories, these are extremely
precious.
They're irreplaceable anchors of identity and history and knowledge, but they are also
the living bodies of our beloved progenitors.
There's no knowledge or information that can replace the heartfelt fact of the presence
in physical proximity of one's ancestors.
However conflicted our history with them may be, and in some cases, I'm well aware there
are many people who have no desire to ever see their ancestors again or some of them
because they had very difficult or painful childhood experiences or teenage experiences
or young adult experiences or adult experiences.
Nevertheless, we hold our elders in reverence generally as the kind of animal that we are.
And as I've often said, any specific instance of a moment or a person or a relationship will
have unique features.
So the fact that we generally hold our ancestors in reverence doesn't mean that everyone does.
And perhaps here in the United States, this is less true than it is in older cultures
where the family tends to stay bonded very closely throughout their entire lives.
So that the mother remains the mother and the father remains the father and the children
remain the children and so on and so forth.
And this may seem anathema to our modern, quote unquote, often that modernity mostly
indicates amputations of stuff that's really important to us, but that's not the only thing
it indicates.
The idea of individuality that pervades American, modern American experience has very dangerous
aspects and potential ramifications or consequences.
But our ancestors and so too our children, these are the living bodies of memory.
I don't know if you can see this, but watch.
When I make the high-pitched sound, the little insects gather all around me and orbit me.
I've had people claim that that wasn't a real phenomenon because they can't conceive
of being able to interact with insects in such a way that your voice just draws them
to you.
And I won't claim that it's not largely a scientific phenomenon, well, yes I will.
Science can give us insight into some features of our physical situation and our rational
situations, but there are many aspects of being and life that science is fundamentally
unequipped to explore or explain or perceive or model or inform us about.
Science is a specific array of methods and tools, incredibly useful where it's useful,
often very dangerous where it's not.
But I was speaking about embodied memory and how our ancestors and our children and
indeed ourselves are examples of embodied memory.
Now if I were to go to one of my ancestors and ask them to tell me who our people are,
they would reference their ancestors and what they were told, who in turn referenced their
ancestors and what they were told, and what would result is a string of narratives.
And today I'm going to be talking a bit about the relationship between narratives, memory
and identity.
So let me ask you a question that might seem a bit too simple on the surface.
How do you know who you are?
How do you know?
And in fact, I suspect it would be impossible to explain who you are, and the reason is
that explanations cannot capture the diverse experiences and felt senses, intuitions, thoughts,
phenomena, dreaming, imagination that our humanity emerges in the cloud of.
There's no explanation or description that will help me, that will encompass your identity.
You can tell me stories, narratives, and you can list qualities or experiences, preferences,
likes, dislikes, but fundamentally the way you know who you are
is because you have access to this store, we might, and that's a metaphor of course,
but you have access to this library of memorial information.
And if that library were to go away for some reason, even if it were to be momentarily
suspended, how would you know who you are?
And here's a perhaps slightly more provocative question.
A question asked or posed by many spiritual traditions and particularly meditation traditions.
What if you could momentarily be free of those memories?
What if just for a moment you could suspend all the memorial ideation and figures that
you depend upon to believe that you know who you are?
What if we could just pause that for a moment?
What would happen?
What might we learn?
What might we become capable of that we are otherwise incapable of?
Now of course we have pathological states and situations, things we refer to as dementia
or we I think largely misuse this word medically, but another term we use is Alzheimer's disease.
These are examples of the consequences of suffering various kinds of brain and perhaps
metabolic damage due to the progression of what we call an illness.
And I believe it is an illness.
Although again when we use language we should be careful to maintain some ambiguity, right?
We don't necessarily want to disbelieve things which are relatively provable facts, but we
might benefit from reintroducing some ambiguity there.
And in a sense one of the things I'm engaged in right now, one of the things I hope to
explore together is what it would be like for us if a little ambiguity were introduced
into our personal experience of who we are.
And over the past couple of days I've been thinking very carefully about the relationship
between narratives, memory, identity, and two specific phrases that I've become momentarily
fascinated by.
The first is disambiguation, which is to reduce the cognitive or sensorial ambiguity in thought
or experience, to go from like, oh I hear something, to oh I think that's an animal,
to that sounds like a raccoon, that's a raccoon.
That's a process of disambiguation.
And humans, like myself and you and all the other humans, while we're awake particularly
rely upon this process of disambiguation.
But most of us are not very skillful with it.
In fact language is one of the tools we use to disambiguate our experience, and most of
us have an incredibly primitive grasp, such a primitive grasp, that although the fact
that we can speak and read is a very powerful advantage over someone who cannot, we have
to sacrifice other faculty, well we don't have to, we tend to sacrifice an array of
other faculties that would ordinarily be a part of our experience of our own minds and
intelligence and relational capacities and opportunities and abilities and so on.
Many of these are sacrificed because the price we pay for the disambiguation, for the disambiguation's
language can deliver, is far, far too high, much higher than it needs to be.
And the primary reason for this is just that our ancestors, well actually that's a common,
there is no simple explanation of that.
Over the evolution of modern human consciousness, we lost faculties of memory, identity and
intelligence, whole dimensions of these things.
As we gained conveniences like writing, accounting, law, computation, telepresence,
so on and so forth.
So as we were stacking up these conveniences, we never did any accounting about what they
would cost and long ago wise men and women realized they were very concerned about the
onset of writing because they suspected quite rightly that for nearly everyone this would
result in catastrophic deficits of skill and capability in relation to memory.
They were right.
And our people in say the last 500 years, just to pick an arbitrary interval, we have continued
to fall down that mountainside catastrophically so that now people actually depend on their
handheld computing devices to act as extra vocabulary or even to remediate the problems
with knowledge and memory that we've developed as a result of becoming far too intimate
with technology and failing to develop the kinds of memory arts that were common among
our ancestors.
What kinds of memory arts am I referring to?
Well, there were certainly people capable of remembering a thousand pages of text.
To, as I understand it, to merely open the Sundance in one indigenous culture, something
like a hundred songs are required to be performed essentially perfectly by one of the participants.
There were songs long ago that lasted days.
At some point in human history, there were people capable of singing the entire Torah.
And by the way, one of the first sacrifices that one of the earliest and perhaps least
remembered of sacrifices was the sacrifice of music to speech.
This is before writing, although if you think about it, it's probably easier to remember
something that has musical accompaniment than it is to merely remember spoken language.
That musical accompaniment gives you all kinds of felt senses and cues and sort of hooks
in which you can more easily hang the relatively monotonous verbal content.
Okay, here's some more of these gnats.
So if I make even a sound at all, if I just clear my throat, the gnats leap, right?
So that's not an optical illusion.
More low tones cause them to collect, higher, faster frequencies cause them to disperse.
But some frequencies draw them directly toward me.
As you can see, language is music.
And the gnats respond to it whether I make it musical, or whether I simply speak.
Now there's a lot of ground I want to cover and I'm not going to have enough time to cover
all of it today, most likely.
But I've outlined some of the problems that face us as moderns in our relationship with
memory.
There are practices that individuals can learn.
We can teach our children and each other if we are interested.
We can recover the arts of memory together.
To whatever degree we are willing or interested in doing so.
And one of the reasons I make these videos, excuse me, is not because I expect other people
are going to be very interested and fascinated and compelled, even though I do certainly
hope that that might happen once or twice.
That's partly because I am practicing, improvising around an array of topics so that I can keep
my vocabulary alive and my creative ability to speak extempore alive.
I need, these things are, by the way, if someone said like, well why?
I'd say because that's who I am.
Because that narrative, right?
I associate an array of skills and behaviors and preferences and histories and ideas and
passions and hatreds and preferences and qualities.
All of these things I associate with who I am.
That's funny, I'm now walking again through the area in which I was first asking this
question a few minutes ago.
And also where I was asking the question of what would happen if we could voluntarily
suspend that.
Surely to be cripplingly deprived of it due to illness or disease is a terrifying catastrophe.
A tragedy that we would all wish to avoid and that no one would wish on any other human
being.
Because to be without memory at all, it's funny, we might use the word vegetative, but
that's a metaphor and it's a very badly formed metaphor.
Because you can see all around me the incredible life that is the vegetation.
And that vegetation is not insensate, though many might argue it isn't fully sentient.
And I would make very complex arguments like the sentience with which people would make
that assertion depends precisely on that stuff that they're pretending isn't smart, doesn't
have memory, it's not intelligent, it's insentient.
I think our sentience floats on the transcendent underpinnings of the entire biosphere and
perhaps time space itself with good reason.
But I'm not trying to convince you of that, form your own opinions, how to make your own
inquiries.
So surely it's a tragedy to be deprived inexorably of memory and identity and our felt sense of
being who we are, but might it not also be true that because we are incapable of voluntarily
releasing the narratives that bind us to our ideas of ourselves, might it not also
be true that that is a kind of tragedy, that that is a form of deprivation, and I will
assert forcefully that this is so.
And if this were not so, these traditions where we pay very close attention to the breathing,
our bodies, the moment of our mental experience, these traditions would not flourish and they
flourish.
And they flourish precisely because they have the potential to grant people a momentary
