or at the, at the, in the register of physical representation.
And so I think those two polarities essentially become the animal and vegetal, and I'm not
positive about this, but I think they become the, they're sort of related to outside and inside
physically. The vegetal pole may be the inside, if I remember correctly, producing the organs and
bones and such. But I'm, I'm actually not a biologist, and it's been many years since I've
even had the urge to think about these things, like probably 20 or 30. In any case, you see here
the beginnings of bipolarity. Another thing that's always hilarious is when
we are bilaterally comprised animals, in the sense that
it says if we're split down the middle by a line,
and we have a right hand and a left hand and a right foot and a left foot and a right eye and
a left eye and a right ear and a left ear, right nostril, left nostril, right ovary, left ovary,
right lung sac, left lung sac. And I think it's actually important that only one side of our body
contains, so to speak, using the container metaphor in English, which I must trust, the heart.
And we associate our heart with emotions, and that's partly because our heart changes
when our emotional manifold transforms. Our heart changes. We feel it change.
Now, I'm sure people could form good arguments against that, but, you know, physicalist arguments.
So, the beginnings of this bi-hemispheric situation lie in the egg cell, right, and it's
first division. It forms a polarity, and that polarity develops over time. And, by the way,
I don't know how it is with your ears, but your right eye and your left eye, the right eye is,
I think it's a doubled situation, let me explain. So, the right eye probably belongs more to the
left hemisphere, just as the right hand, right foot, and so forth do. But it appears from what
we've been able to learn by mechanical study that both eyes are split so that the right half of both
eyes belongs to the left hemisphere and vice versa. Now, that's a really interesting arrangement.
Apparently, both aspects need both eyes, or rather,
the possibility of losing an eye has to be adjusted for by giving both hemispheres access to both.
So, you have probably noticed, as a human being, at some point in your life, whether or not you're
still aware of it, that food tastes and feels different on different sides of your mouth,
and probably in the middle.
People who are not right handers,
and to some degree, that is imposed on us, but there is a relatively natural
inclination underneath those impositions. I'm not sure if it's for the right hand,
by the way. It could well be left hand early in life, right hand later in life,
and I wouldn't be surprised to discover that particular situation like obtains.
So, you can see that, now look, underneath, let's be really clear, most people who haven't
really looked carefully at a diagram of the brain, they will imagine that the right hemisphere is the
right side of the brain, and the left hemisphere is the left side. Ordinarily, what is being referred to
is a layer of tissue on the surface, comprising kind of a hat, if you will,
with two elements and connective tissue between them, that's the corpus callosum.
And those hats are maybe, I don't know, I don't know exactly. Let's think like a half to three quarters
of an inch in thickness, and they're wrinkled, and the wrinkling
gives you more surface area, like a lot more. The wrinkles that we see in preserved brains
deprived of the dura, which is the circulatory tissue that feeds them blood, I think,
on the very surface. And I have actually seen these things first hand, like I know they exist,
because sometime in the mid 90s, I went into an operating room with neurosurgeon Francis Conley
at Stanford, and observed brain surgery for eight hours, just stood right next to her while she
opened up someone's head, and pointed out the various features of the anatomy.
Which I was super fascinated by. Kind of a dangerous and crazy situation would actually
took place there, but that's a different story. All right. So the cortexes are the structures on
the top of the brain, essentially, and they form a kind of a pecan shape from the side, right?
A crescent, they meet in the center, and they're subject inside the skull to
a kind of a twisting called Yakovlevian torque, I believe. I learned this term from
E. A. McGillchrist. And that means that the brain case itself is sort of twisted to one side.
I can't remember if it's clockwise or counterclockwise, but I think it's clockwise,
meaning that the left hemisphere has more tissue in the front, and the right hemisphere has more in
the back. Yes, I think that's correct. And it's the frontal cortex, right, where representational
cognition mostly lives. This is probably a relatively new feature in the evolution of our
species, and particularly the ways it has developed over the past, say, eight to 10,000 years, which
is very brief time in geological and evolutionary history. You're talking about a microsecond or
something. And I would argue we're not... In order to develop the left hemisphere intelligently,
an animal like ours would need outside guidance. Left to its own devices, representational cognition
will destroy all life. Without... I would argue that if we could look at a million planets where
creatures somewhat like us develop representational cognition, those unguided by other intelligences
would fail at a probably 90% rate right around the time they start being able to make bombs,
and very, very few of them would survive. And then there would be some that had...
generated an apocalypse, but some humans lived, or some of the intelligent... Right, I'm sorry.
Some of the representational cognitives lived and preserved the stories of what happened,
but you'd still have the same problem. In the same way, children won't develop
representational cognition at all, if raised by animals. And there's only a certain phase of
their development within which they can... They are inclined to be able to develop it, right?
Wild children brought home from the wilderness can't learn English and don't care about the bizarre
rituals and absurdities of society. Objects, rituals, and absurdities. Behaviors, objects,
rituals, and absurdities. They are animals, mostly. And so you can see that in our species,
there's a specific phase of our development in our own lives, in my life and your life.
We went through this phase, and it's important to understand that we were recapitulating,
to imagine, I should say, that we were recapitulating the developmental history of our species,
as we developed from infants to wherever we are now.
There was a phase during which we were inclined to be able to be in language and
enculturated. And if we were in language and enculturated by an actually advanced intelligent
people, then we would acquire their skills, defenses against ignorance and coercion,
and all the broad arrays of intelligences that humans are fully capable of developing
in an intelligent context. Unfortunately, nearly zero of the children will find themselves born into one.
So we're born into toxically deformed contexts. And that's crippling, though many of us
eventually develop a sort of a two-mind system, right? And of course, it's much more than that. We
have a secret mind, a secret plus companion's mind, a companion's mind, a social mind,
and a public mind. And many people, perhaps, don't differentiate between those. We also
have business and private and all these other kinds of little sub-mind compartments, so to speak.
The poor human children. So on planets where there's no actual intelligence and the human's
break, right, the representational animal breaks off from nature, which is a source of infinite,
infinitely diverse natural intelligences and is probably the telephone. If you got to call mom
or dad and you need to send a signal, the way to do that is through nature. So if you send the signal,
for example, let's say you have a species that doesn't realize nature is the phone,
so they start tearing that stuff down and burning it up and making little representations of
rectangles in banks and things. They may think that doesn't send a signal, but everything in
time space gets the signal, especially all the creatures on your home planet and all the ecologies,
and that's the worst, effectively the worst signal you could possibly send.
The best signal you could send is, ah, hello. We recognize that we belong to an ancient family
and we are calling because we are in trouble. That would be a decent signal. Of course, you
have to be careful. Time space is a lot like a forest. If you start yelling, help, help,
then you might attract predators. So you need to tailor the signal and the way it is sent
in such a way as to produce good recipients, right, and to select for good recipients.
Desirable recipients, this is another way of saying it, or beneficent or altruistic participants.
And the altruistic participants don't tend to be highly military, but they're very powerful.
They're powerful for a weirder way than the military participants. They're powerful because
every being that ever existed is on their side, right, like the entire line of your
ancestors would stand up in their graves and cheer if a truly beautiful altruistic act or situation
were accomplished. I mean, this is what the idea of triumph actually means. It doesn't mean
perverse incentive zero-sum games. That is not what it means. And there are intelligences
even within us, right? The human cognition is sort of a mirror of the intelligences of time
space. What you can find in there, you can find in time space. So you can find things like
the misbehaviors that we that terrify and horrify us. And you can also find intelligences inclined
and empowered to do, to perform astonishing, beautiful, restorative, noble, honorable, dignified
situations, right, transformations of situations.
All right, the hemispheres. So
here's where I'm going to, I'm going to branch here,
probably, unless there's something else I need to say about the hemispheres. So first of all,
normally they're both active and they both contribute to consciousness. But the representational
aspect is trained to dominate our lives and bodies, our nervous systems, and so forth to a degree.
In childhood, as we undergo in language and in culture. And there's a lot of different
ways to look at these processes and many useful and intelligent purposes that can direct our
explorations. It's not that the right hemisphere is good and the left is bad. It's something far
weirder than that. It's that the, okay, well, there's different ways of thinking about it. One is just that
as, you know, McGillchrist characterizes
McGillchrist characterizes the right hemisphere as the master
and the left hemisphere as the emissary.
And tell, you know, spins the tail. There's a similar, I think, I mean, what I was shown was
that Cain and Abel in the Bible represent this. Though it's very confusing now.
It's confusing because there's, it's so much more complex than I originally was able to understand.
But McGillchrist paints it as if
over the developmental time of our species, and particularly over the recent span,
recent being maybe 25,000 years, just kind of a random number there, but not too random.
The emissary became so powerful that it largely occluded the master. And what is the master?
Is this some kind of slave? You know, no, no, no, no. It's not that at all. It's,
you would probably prefer not to have to drive your car with a foot, right? And your pinky is
super important on your hand and enables many features. You can get along without it.
But what you actually need is a palm, right? You need a place that unifies the members.
And you also need a wrist, right, that leads upscale to the directing intelligences
that animate the members according to purposes.
So what you wouldn't want is your hand leading your body around.
What you want is your mind leading your body around. And even then, you're in danger if the
representational aspects dominate for lots of reasons. They're super powerful and useful tools,
but it's like being dominated by a tool. And you actually need your heart and your dreaming mind
and your creativity, your playfulness, your intelligence, all of these things are crucially
important contributors to the context of consciousness. So if you just become very clinical,
then you're likely to end up in a situation with perverse incentives and zero-sum games.
And you're even likely to end up in that situation at the register of yourself,
right? Like your own psyche and stuff. So the master in this model, maybe master's the wrong word,
I would just like the unified, what the tree of unified intelligences of origin or something like
this, which is what I imagine the right hemisphere to resemble.
They must not be encompassed, silenced, or have their resources shunted off into
left hemispheric styles of living and thought and so forth. Or rather, I mean the way that I think
of it is like the left hemisphere, the right hemisphere is origin and the left hemisphere
is the laboratory. So the right hemisphere is memory in the sense of evolutionary filial
originary intelligences and so forth. But the left hemisphere is the representation of those.
So the left hemisphere is a bit more like a museum where the old skills and abilities are
there in structure, but dead inside kind of. And the tools are very powerful,
but you don't want your right hand going around attacking your body,
the universe, the world, the sun, the earth, right? We're processing them either.
So there's this crazy imbalance in us and it becomes, the ironic thing is
McGilchrist and I both were aware that we could use the tools
to serve the original purposes of the trustworthy aspects
of our consciousness and psycholinguistic concerns.
Just need to test my mic here. Test, test.
Okay. Now,
there's a whole long story here about
the strange evidence for the conflict and the problems that arise from it. So the idea of
rectitude, correctness, the idea of being right, getting it right,
all of these have to do with the predilection in conceptual awareness
for the structured aspect. One of the things the right hemisphere does rather adequately or even
in a very profound way is to interrupt narratives that have gone sideways and are starting to become
religions in the left hemisphere's sort of way of life.
Um,
there's so much to say here. The circle is probably the most primordial form
in terms of forms. The angle is also primordial but to a much lesser degree.
If an angle is part of a triangle, if an angle is a radian, that's super important to darn near everything.
I'm just watching two young boys, right? And they're just like stomping away
on the ground and they're really interested in what they're stomping on.
And this I do find very peculiar. I mean, this looks to me like kind of a failure on the part of
the parents, but uh, one of the little boys after stomping away madly and then looking at
the bottom of his shoe for evidence of successful stomping. He said, I want to destroy more.
So they went looking for more creatures to obliterate.
I wonder what the right hemisphere's role in that is, if any. That might be like the kind of the
evidence of the, uh, ascending domination of left hemisphere-like features.
You see, there's no connection to the life forms there. And it should be relatively obvious
that at least at the scale of cohorts, right, our society, civilizations, corporations, and so forth,
we perform transactions in the biosphere as if nature doesn't matter, is dead inside, is just
there to be converted to commodities and representations of value or power or longevity
and so forth. And so huge problems here.
Yeah, vast trouble. Now, I'm not sure what's going on in the little boys. They're early in
their developmental cycle, but by three, they've already been thoroughly infected with
representational cognition. And by the way, what did I mean earlier when I said on worlds
where the development of Repcog is not intelligently guided by external intelligences or symbi, you
know, think of the concept of symbiosis, um, the symbiogenesis of human representational cognition
or, excuse me, of the alpha representational on a planet like ours, whatever that creature might
look like. I would suggest that it's very likely that in the early development,
and throughout perhaps the first, I don't know, three, 400,000 years of our development,
we were associated with non-human intelligences, possibly a broad array of types of them.
But it's not my goal here to go on and on about that topic. I just want to point out
that imagine children, imagine a science fiction story and what happens to the children
in a situation where
right around the age of those boys I just saw, right, right around that age,
