Hello, everybody. Welcome. Monday afternoon. It's funny. I heard Kurt Gimungal use a very
peculiar phrase, which he went on to explicate a little bit in a, as usual,
accessible, profound, brilliant way. It's funny. I'm looking at a gopher and it's
looking at me what with its left eye. I'm standing right near it. It's looking at me
with its left eye again, turned its face all the way to check, to check me out. But
also, whether an animal or a human being uses its left or right eye to explore the world with,
or, you know, obviously they're both linked. Okay, this turns out to be a really important
metaphor. So I've studied hemispheric lateralization for a long time. Prior to Ian McGillchrist's work,
I was already deeply aware of this problem and I didn't so much learn it from reading books on
neuroscience. I had non-ordinary assistance. Effectively, in so much as I can understand
what happened and refer to it in any kind of language, which pretty much doesn't work.
Apparently, what it seemed like, presuming that anything can seem like what I'm about to say,
I was being educated in real time every day by non-human intelligence and that's where I learned
to be really interested in the differences between the hemispheres on the surface of the brain
and then maybe particularly also the hippocampus and the corpus callosum. Corpus obviously means
body. I'm not sure what hippo means in camp. They mean things, these words, these word fragments.
They mean things. So I become very interested in them because it was shown to me that they were
crucially important not merely in the development of our species as if that could be mere. Language
is really weird, not merely in a universal sense, but yeah, not merely in the development of our
species but in the development of each of our own minds and lives because it was strongly
suggested to me that from the time we are conceived until the time we die, we are uniquely
wandering through the terrain of reiterating the phases of the development of human minds over the
history of our species and perhaps before. There was a long time ago, what, I don't know, 110,
130 years ago or something, a man who suggested, and you know it looks compelling on the surface,
right, suggested that the embryology of human beings recapitulates the development of the
forms of life on earth. So it basically from conception to birth or conception to some portion
of embryology or what you, embryogenesis where what you have is you know, a highly developed,
effectively human fetus at some phase in the development inside the womb. The process apparently
comes to a conclusion but doesn't. And this is one of the most staggering, I want you to imagine
for a moment, let's not be too concerned with whether his perspective was true or not.
Imagine that there's something very important we can see together from supposing that perspective,
right? As I understand it,
in the strangely materialistic, let's see, in the strange physical materialism and
eliminative materialism, bias library of modern science, and it's not too hard to see how you
get there, right? Because you need to know that's a night heron. Oh, I didn't mean to correct you.
I'm sorry. These are quite rare. It's very uncommon to see them. This one has learned that people
feed ducks here and that draws fish to the surface. Right, right.
It's very uncommon to be this close to one of these birds. I think it has
somehow learned either to not fear the humans.
Oh, I see what's going on. Someone's been putting out seed
and it's interested in food on the land. It's uncommon.
Well, maybe it just came up there to take a dump because that's what it did.
And if effectively that's something like a don't poop in the water, right, idea.
Which I think is probably true. It's a dumb thing to poop in the water you eat out of.
You know, unless you're human, in which case that's the first thing you do,
especially as a society, right? You do that and then you charge people to fix the problems,
right? It's an economic benefit. And the same thing goes for ideology.
All right. So recursive, reiterative embryogenesis, right? So it's like
this is an expansion of the original idea, which is just
reiterative embryogenesis. The embryo goes through the phases of the development of
complex animals on earth, right? It sort of starts out as a
a polywog and the idea was that
if one sort of sliced up the time frames of the embryo's genesis, what you would see
are images of the newly emergent complex form in the environment over evolutionary time,
right, from the beginning to now. But what I'm going to talk about and go beyond very quickly
is just something more interesting, right? That idea is very important. It doesn't matter if
it's true. It's important to be able to think and imagine and see this way. Because there are many
features of nature that aren't explicitly yes or no. Yes, it's true or no, it's not.
In fact, we will quickly understand, if we just take a look at human cognition,
that whether yes, it's true or no, it's not depends sort of on where in the sphere of
possibilities of angles of concern, right, angles of purpose, where in that sphere you're coming
from and why. Your purpose will determine how you read the data, especially if you're
if you're biased to seek a specific conclusion such as, well, there's no evidence of that,
therefore it's impossible, right? We hear this kind of talk all the time about things in physics.
It's impossible to travel instantaneously between two planets. What's impossible is that anyone
could know that, especially now on earth. We think that what we've discovered, we treat the field
of knowledge generally as if what we have discovered is a complete guide to everything,
which cannot be the case. This is like a child presuming that because they form the concept
associated with human silverware, right? They finally understood the idea of, oh, you hold
this thing, it's made in a factory, it's made of metal usually, and you manipulate the food with it
to facilitate easy eating, easy un-messy eating. Imagine a child who, this is their first,
which is ridiculous, wouldn't happen. This is their first concept and they now think,
I have mastered the universe. This is how our species treats knowledge, generally,
or at least a broad cohort of the population and scientists often speaks as if this is the case,
which is bogglingly idiotic. So let's imagine that a reiterative embryogenesis is happening,
or that something very closely resembling it is happening, and then instead of just reading
the sort of evolutionary record from start to now, what is happening is that the embryo is
actually testing the environment and temporality and adjusting its development to those signals,
such that it's generally reiterating the history of evolution of animals, but it's also
leaping forward into the future, sensing that and incorporating that information somehow
into its developing form. In a sense, you could imagine that the embryo is attempting
in a sort of a heartbeat fashion to go evolutionary history, close future, medium future, far future.
Then back, it gets that data, encodes that into the next query for evolutionary history,
establishes form inside itself, and then goes forward, reads the future, and includes that
information to whatever degree it can. So that's recursive, reiterative embryogenesis.
Now, I can't remember exactly why these two words are used, but once the
embryo's first cell, I used to have this slogan, remember your first cell back in the 80s when
I started studying biology and had my mind completely blown out of its sockets, because
minds have sockets, don't you know? There's the gametes, or the gametes, I think it's gamete.
It's G-E-M-E-T-E, which are the egg cell and sperm cell, and the politics of how they meet
is staggeringly beautiful and complex, because what definitely doesn't happen
is that the sperm cells have a race and the best one wins, like it's a competition.
That is not what is going on there. What is going on there is hypersensing at the
scale of cell cohorts on the side of the sperm, and extreme hypersensing on this case of the egg,
such that very subtle, extremely subtle fields of information are exchanged, modulated.
The sperm cells do not race, they draft. Drafting is a situation where
the cohort can promote someone to the front, so to speak, can promote, again, a smaller cohort
of sperm cells are promoted to positions of high opportunity for fertilization,
and then when one or more sperm arrive in the proximity of the egg, the egg can modulate
something resembling an electromagnetic manifold to apparently participate in selection of nearby
sperm. Now, it probably doesn't have a long time window that it can do that. That's probably a
process where if you get four or five sperm in near proximity, the egg can exert a selective
situation on them, as I understand it. And once again, I'm not trying to say exactly what is
true here, and neither am I trying to make things up. I'm proposing a theoria, if you will,
a useful as-if perspective, though I'm pretty sure there's some evidence for this particular argument.
And then so immediately after penetration, what happens is that the, all right,
so the sperm are driven by a spindle, and that spindle, which is essentially you could think
of it as the motor, or more organically, the legs, right, of the sperm, what it runs with,
what it uses to run. That spirochete-like element could also be thought of as a racehorse.
That spindle pushes the little bundle of
potent, a little potent package that gets delivered through the egg's membrane. That spindle is formed
of mitochondrial DNA. In fact, it's really just a strand of mitochondrial DNA. And
in that sense, it is an organism unto itself. It is effectively the DNA of the mothers,
the whole matrilineal line, all the way back to mitochondrial eaves, supposedly.
That's the DNA that is the engine that pushes the sperm to meet the egg, so to speak, draws them
together. And that's a profound temporal event. That's the birth of a universe. This is not,
if you want to understand something about the nature of understanding, then these really
foundational things like, what's going on between these eggs and sperm? This is a topic that won't
fail to enlighten you about almost anything. It's a hyper topic, right?
So, a sperm hits the egg. The little packet buries itself in the cell wall. Right on the other side
of where it landed, the spirochete, the mitochondrial racehorse, is still alive and sort of wiggling
and trying to, you know, do something useful. One imagines that the packet in the mitochondria
are in intimate communication, or the packet in the spirochete, the packet in the tail,
such that, in a way, this might be the organism's first experience of the loss of a companion.
Right? And a lot of people feel as if, this, I've never noticed this about to say before,
in fact, the companion loss. I've spoken of that, but not the implications.
So, your original, imagine that the masculine aspect of your original body had two parts,
and the feminine aspect was like a billion lunar cycles of information, in other words, the egg.
Many people suggest or say that they have the feeling that there used to be a twin,
that the other part of them wasn't born. And in some cases, this is blatantly a fact.
Right? There may have been a companion embryo that was aborted, or perhaps they are remembering
something. Perhaps there was a previous child who didn't get born, and there's structured memory
about that associated with the womb, in the same way that children's rooms are highly
in-charactered. Each child who arises in the womb, we should imagine in-character is the womb,
so that the next child grows up in their older siblings, in a library of their older siblings
transformations, relationally, with found intimacy here, because the child in the womb
are essentially one being. And it needn't be highlighted that every human being that we know of,
maybe two or three exceptions, or some small number of exceptions, test tube children,
was first an organ in the body of a female. So, you know, any attempt to denigrate women
is not only wildly unfounded, but openly ignorant.
All right, so many humans have the sense of a lost sibling, and I'm sure there are many
interesting and useful psychological explanations for this, but nobody ever thought that perhaps
the packet of sperm remembers its traveling companion, the one who brought it to the egg,
and got it there on time, and in the right situation, and everything was perfect,
but then that being that is the packet
was parted from its traveling element at the cell membrane, and had to leave it,
and probably observed was in touch with it over the span of time
after which that element is deceased. It essentially had to watch its horse die,
and that companion aspect turns out to be really important in ways that today I'm probably
not going to get to, although I might. So, some chemistry changes in the egg cell then,
and these are things we should have been taught as children, right? The fact that I had to
live to be 40 before, I had to have a non-human intelligence direct me through human literature
to understand these matters, and to understand them with reverence, right? Not merely with
abstract efficacy, no, with reverence, because these matters are holy, they are sacred matters,
not because we make them sacred, they are intrinsically sacred matters,
which is part of why they comprise hypertopics.
So, once the desired sperm of what can be chosen from, supposedly of the local sperm,
has successfully penetrated the membrane, and I'm sure there's a word for that membrane,
a technical term that I don't know. The egg locks the gate, right? The egg undergoes
some physical changes at the molecular chemistry level, I think, and the gate's locked.
A future sperm will bounce off.
Of course, there are, it is sometimes true that twins, there are cases of triplets and so forth,
right? Win, and that might have to do with the mechanics of the timing
of sperm arrival, or the mechanics of the eggs, the temporal interval over which the egg locks the
gate, so to speak. So that happens, and then I think it's called a blastocyst, is formed,
and that's going to become a human being, but it's going to go through a lot of complex transformations
over time. And this isn't human time, nine months at the scale of the cell,
that might be long enough to reiterate the history of the universe, especially if
you have an exponentially growing colony of cells, which is what the egg effectively becomes.
And by exponentially, it just means two cells, the egg splits into the vegetal pole and the animal
pole, I believe that's what it's called. That's the first evidence of binary polarity. People
will argue like there's no such thing as binaries, wrong, wrong. Transferring their existence in
various ways to category theory can get you in trouble under some circumstances, often it's crucial.
You know, is that thing boiling hot or not, right? That's an important distinction.
Am I on fire or not, right? There's lots of binary
features of our lexical and categorical consciousness that are crucial to preserve,
and I'm going to be so bold as to suggest that man and woman are one of them.
Egg and sperm, not the same thing. You know, you can scream at sperm all you want and tell them
they don't carry the masculine, right? It is true that they carry both, right? They're propelled by the,
you know, the mitochondrial DNA. And the packet varies in its content, I believe.
I don't think they, do they only contribute? I can't remember,
shit, that's really bad. I can't remember the contribution of the sperm in terms of the chromosomes.
Okay, maybe you'll have to add that in the notes embarrassingly.
In any case, you get the animal pole and the vegetal pole, and the egg
is not the contribution of the man. The sperm is not the contribution of the woman.
Male and female are actual biological categories, and the fact that there's a little blur around
the edges, notwithstanding, these are crucial categorical foundations that must be preserved
in my perspective. And I'm, I can't wait for the attacks. And I'm actually happy to have the
conversation because how we speak of gender generally, first of all, shouldn't be policed
or cancel, you know, cancel culpable, vulnerable.
But we could speak of it in a broad variety of useful ways, unless
some cohort thinks they have the right to make universal declarations about it,
even to overturn the fundamental polarity. They're in structured in physical biology.
Right? This is saying, you know, there's no tree there.
In any case, you get the animal and the vegetal pole,
and this goes on to further divide into pluripotent cell structures. These are cells that can
become any of the cells in the body. And by the way, that technology is pretty fucking incredible.
How, we should also notice that this is what nature is doing, right? Nature is using a super
position to generate a specific array of sub positions. And the super position is
superior to all, all possible productions at the scale of physical representation,
