all parents disappear. So they've been infected with representational cognition
and they're going to continue to develop it but without the guiding intelligence
of experienced beings, okay, experienced at what? Experienced at having minds and forming minds
both individually and together, which is the most important thing you can do. If you're not
doing that. Now there are still helpers here on earth even if there are none in the sky,
right, none in the beyond of time space, none in time space itself.
There are, the earth is a library of anciently evolved symbiotic intelligences
and we can contact and learn from them because we are made of them and quite possibly we were
made for them. The humans turn out to be something resembling the shepherds of life on earth whether
or not that was a God given role. Because of our prowess with technology we will decide
at least for the near term evolutionary future if life continues and also which lives continue.
In other words which forms, right, not necessarily by, you know, looking at a list and going,
okay, let's, you know, let's preserve the tigers and the platypus. The mantis shrimp, yeah, okay.
But we have this power because of the decisions we make
at the scale of our societies and civilizations.
Have a determinative influence on the future.
Left and right.
Left-handers are much more commonly ambidextrous and have certain tasks that they prefer to do
with each hand. You can see that the idea of preference for handedness has a much deeper
expression in left-handers where not only are they often ambidextrous and or partly ambidextrous,
there are certain tasks that they prefer one side to work with. It seems hard to imagine,
there are probably benefits to both, but it's hard to imagine that there are profound benefits
to favoring a single hand. Evolutionarily, developmentally,
all kinds of features and perspectival
orientations are important and usually if you have more options
you're better off, especially if you can combine them.
I never intended to,
it's so funny what happens when I, when I start to make a recording because
sometimes it's usually I have a specific idea in mind.
Often what happens is that I get carried away with the preamble because
there's some interesting sights to see in thought and imagination in that direction,
so I get really excited about the preamble. The actual thing that started this recording for me
today was a topic that I've only been relatively recently introduced to.
Now obviously, I grew up in California and my parents were progressive liberals for my
young life and instilled liberal values in me. What do liberal values really mean?
They mean, so progressive means we want a better future for us and our children
that is, that the capitalizes on the principles of human cooperation and equality,
I mean something like that. Equality where? Equality before the law and before the treatment
in and of society. Also privacy, fundamental important human virtue, privacy. Fuck that up,
you're screwed, you're going to get totalitarian societies in the next 10 seconds.
So it's not just the freedom to speak in public, it's the freedom to speak unobserved in private
and also the freedom to live unsurveilled.
Now the left and the right may share some portion of both of those values,
whatever the left and the right refer to, presuming that the political left and the
political right refer to actual things, which is a pretty big presumption especially today
when nearly any word you can select no longer refers to actual things and
my son's nine-year-old niece turned to him yesterday and said,
I don't think we're living in reality anymore after seeing a horse with a beard
in the park, a real one.
And I don't think that the horse was actually the cause of the comment.
I'm not sure, I honestly, look I, I don't even know what to say, I'm fairly articulate,
I know many other articulate minds and I've listened to many of them
and one of the most commonly said things today is I can't make sense of anything anymore.
Nothing makes sense, identity doesn't seem to exist, the categories are all exploded and blurry
and being manipulated on purpose for a variety of Psyops and so forth.
And I think a lot of that's true, in fact the Psyop part is really for sure true.
And what we're not realizing on the left, which you know like I said I was,
I was lefty most of my whole life no longer. I'm not sure what I am but
the forces which have captured the left look to me to be,
there's a few gems in there, it's not all poison but that looks really Psyoppy and similarly the
forces that have captured the right look really Psyoppy but one of them is less likely to get us
killed right away and it isn't the left. Oh my goodness what are you?
Okay this is really something, what are you? I guess you are a form of carp?
Carp are gathering together right next to turtles gathering together
in what must be either sunbathing or premading behavior or both what must be.
See how the left hemisphere works, it must be this or that. On the other hand you can't just
get rid of binaries. It's perfectly, I just want to make one statement before I continue.
There's no problem with human beings inventing new territory or exploring gender.
I probably, I mean there's certain places I would personally draw the line
but I wouldn't try to draw it for others much at all. What's not cool is people telling us
there's no such thing as women and then demanding that we have the same that if we don't
you know if we don't lock step with their category transforms we are bad or fascists or
shouldn't be allowed to speak or etc etc etc. Shouldn't be engaged in conversation and so on.
Or that we would be punished for saying something like
there are primarily two genders associated with humans. The things we have invented at the outskirts
are not, are experimental and it is not incumbent on anyone
other than those who wish to, to assert them as facts.
I'm probably getting some mud on my face here
but that's okay. I'm willing.
So this right and the left thing, all right, here's the actual problem.
When I was a kid I was very patriotic. I thought this was the greatest country on earth.
America the brave, the brilliant, the beautiful, the true. I don't think there was ever anything
quite like that going on but there were phases where it was pretty good and it certainly wasn't
the worst. Now when you have a group of monsters the fact that you've been enslaved by the best
monster of the group doesn't help a lot because the monster is still going to be doing horrible
things in which you will become complicit. And until we actually develop even on a small scale
of 10 to 15 people something resembling an intelligent collective upon whose purposes and
perspectives and orientations we may lay our trust with relative sureness
until we establish something that's intelligent. We also, we are associated with cultures and
societies and corporations and shit based on where we're born and when we're born.
So these things are inherited in a way. We didn't build the societies we live in. They landed on us
and we don't have to do this but if we're not going to do it we have to do something better.
We can't just go do something worse or go do something ridiculous though you know sometimes
doing something ridiculous in the name of making a statement can be useful.
But my point is this,
over the ensuing years after my childhood when I learned more about war, corporations, technology,
ecological devastation, prison hearing, propaganda and all of these things it became very clear to
me that my country was not good. It was not a country I would agree with. And of the two branches
of politics if they're conceded as a binary basically described as quote democratic and
quote conservative or democratic progressive or conservative and or with some liberal you know
in there somewhere whatever the hell that means and then eventually things like libertarian
and all the little sub chunks right. I always identified as a liberal democrat whether or
not I participated in the voting process which is such a sham that it's almost like I don't even
know. Do I want to put my face in a sewer and then you know how can I possibly vote for things that I
have no you know. That I did not myself compose nor did I agree to compose with others and to
which I and my children and everyone I know will be subject. How can I that just seems fundamentally
bad unless you have an intelligent voluntarily organized society the concept of democracy
is impossible to implement. What you get are very complex thris like diseases masquerading as virtuous.
It's bath time for the ducks here. They're having a little group bath.
You know recently someone asked me to comment on the situation between Israel and Palestine
and I'm just making that bookmark. Whatever the hell became of the political parties in the
United States both of them descended into open insanity. This like straight up power play nonsense
rival risks dynamics bullshit lying propaganda controls favor trading back room dealing
underhanded conservation of assets across generations of wealth crimes straight up
fucking rape murder drug dealing you name it all that shit is going on.
And the organs particularly the military bureaucratic prison and political organs of our nation
are mostly counterfeit intentionally intentionally counterfeited.
And there doesn't seem any possibility of correcting them.
Though we'd probably be wiser to retrofit them than to just dispose of them wholesale presuming
that even something like that is possible of course something like that will happen if there's
a major war. So but here's the thing I understand the history of my nation to some degree at least
you know the span from the before of colonization to the waves of colonization that took place
and also many of the complexities of that process that are not ordinarily
to common people. I know something about history I'm not an expert
and I'm not claiming that the founders of the colonized nation of the United States
were beneficial altruists or but they they took some principles that were pretty profound
and encoded them as foundations.
I also don't know the histories of the foundations of other nations but I suspect that many of them
lie in war and colonization not all of them I don't know but I was born here and I live here
and if something directly threatens the nation I live in I am unlikely to side with it.
There are perhaps examples of exceptions.
Missions that intend to build actually intelligent societies might get my attention
or my participation my cooperation but if something if someone wants to like take down the
United States I'm not on their side and if they want to take down any foreign nation I'm not on
their side with some exceptions right if that nation is acting
cruelly or inhumanely or stupidly or aggressively then just like you know the drunk guy at the bar
we need to we need to cope with this somehow hopefully blows don't have to be exchanged
but if they do then let's you know let's do so as effectively and quickly and
you know un-injuriously as possible
and here's the problem other nations have set their sights on the United States
on acquiring it controlling it or possibly destroying it
and
it's not because they have a better idea of how to be human or they intend to
rescue the planet from nuclear devastation or some noble mission it's a straight-up
military objective it's a military economic objective
and in the beginning of problems with immigration you know my ancestors were immigrants here
our country has generally
been a sort of haven for others and particularly those who suffered
religious sectarian gender-based you know any kind of persecution in their home country that was
serious we you know we our country maintains a sort of a balance sheet of
how many foreign people we can import
and I'm well aware that people from specific countries come here
particularly South America in search of a better life for them and their families and
and
also to escape you know catastrophic hardship
hmm what was that about that was weird
however
you know I don't know how to solve the immigration problem and I think it's very complex
um and I don't even really understand the scope of the immigrant immigration problem like an
expert or even a well-educated person what I know is that each day somewhere between
10,000 and 100,000 people from other countries pour into our nation
and I mean there is a question about does anyone actually possess their own nation
is it a possession what is it what's the relationship or are we there are we the
conservators of a nation
over the past couple months listening to experts
um usually X CIA or X screen berets talking about topics like the Darian gap which you can look up
and what's going on with China one of them had written three books on
what was it Chinese information warfare
uh and who interviewed him maybe was it Chris Williams I'm not sure
he he went down to the Darian gap and sort of checked into what was going on down there
this is a place where thousands of immigrants heading for the United States show up every day
um and where they are fleeced and murdered and raped and tortured except the Chinese who mostly
aren't and the Chinese have their own camps you can't get into them and it's clear that these
are not ordinary immigrants after having you know spoken with a number of them
many of those spoken with were clearly not ordinary Chinese people these were
trained intelligence agents
coming into the United States by the thousands per month and sometimes you know the tens of thousands
per week uh now something should be obvious which is that
wars are expensive and dangerous and painful but you can have there's like 50 ways you can
avoid direct conflict and one of them is just by replacing another nation's population with your
own internally and here's the actual problem that i'm facing presently many of the ideas
many of the ideologies
that presently dominate the democratic party what we might think of as the left and maybe there's a
left part of the right as you know as well so to speak and these words are very easily loosely
applied many of the imperatives that currently orient the left are lethally dangerous to the
future of the possibility of our nation i've never been much of a patriot but what i'm seeing going on
now is catastrophically stupid you know the left's idea that anyone who wants to live here
should just come on over it's we're all better together is fucking insane and won't work because
there are bad actors and i mean you know it's the same thing as like well we'll just you know
let's just give our military to every nation who wants a piece of it
we should have better solutions than military conflict as of i don't know 200 years ago at least
but uh in the in a world where we don't you can't just do away with the military because you're a
nice guy and want to you know want to be a good neighbor similarly you can't ignore
immigration issues because those people become voters and they become economic powers
inside your own nation in the same way you don't you don't like go down to the store by cancer and
swallow some directly um anyone with any concern for our nation at all would realize that our
government is absolutely failing to protect the future and the present of our nation as regards
the specific problem we are not formally paying the the proper kind of attention to the issue
hi
clades with strong subcultures that enter our nation will establish those subcultures
