and their subcultures and their behaviors will select for participants in those subcultures
and will establish themselves as powers socially economically religiously politically
as if the united state the existing milieu of the united states is just a petri dish filled with
various nourishment media now someone could argue yes that's the whole idea of this experiment
no it fucking isn't um obviously we should reforge our nation every 30 to 50 years i think
you know that principle is something i took from the founding documents quote unquote
which we never did and that's part of why we're in such a fucking mess we being you know we actual
americans and look i'm very aware that uh immigrants from other nations come to america
and do provide you know in terms of the the structured systems we have in place the economic
systems the commercial systems all of these um they you know they show up and they do they do
hard work they work really fucking hard in many cases they're not just sitting at home
you know watching tv getting a check from the government every month though perhaps some portion
of them are they participate meaningfully in our economy and in some ways you know better than some
percentage of of our own people do however demoralized and uh disaffected our own people may be
China is pouring agents into this country um we've seen the same strategy elsewhere there's
many python cartoons about it that i've seen so they must have done it in britain as well
in my own neighborhood and i'm not saying this to be racist um
i am profoundly outnumbered by asians and over 30 years what does it mean i am profoundly outnumbered
by asians um i am now a minority okay other people have experienced that no no problem but
why am i a minority i am a minority because of a massive transfer of wealth generationally
let me be really clear it is extremely expensive to live in san francisco
even if your housing is taken care of
where's all the money coming from
how do why is there i mean over the past 30 years for example
the number of restaurants in my neighborhood that are asian has probably quadrupled right now i
don't mean the number i mean the prevalence uh like a four fold increase um when i walk around
on the street probably a third of the people that i see are asian and i'm not biased against
asian people in fact quite the opposite um i've been a student of asian culture since my early
20s i studied tai chi i made some attempts at learning kanji and have studied a bit of chinese
language and um japanese language i am in a a xenophile i love human beings i love all the
different kinds of human beings and when humans from other cultures and or ethnicities and or
genders show up around me i'm usually fascinated and you know open to collaborative human being
gaming together um but that's not what's going on what's going on is uh kind of a sectarian
right a a chunk
wow there is a lot of action here are those really carp
now we've got carp minnows and turtles all hanging out in the warm spot
but i can't actually tell if those are carp they don't look like bass catfish or
fish
in terms of international politics the chinese are
anciently intelligent right this is a civilization civilization that makes america look like uh
what a four-year-old um they play the long game generally speaking and
because their efforts are fundamentally intrinsically unified under the party
in a way that ours are not that no western nations really are
um communism is very likely to win uh any kind of military or domineering game over time
historically the capacity for the development of new technologies was one of the things that kept
our nation relatively dominant
uh but we have failed catastrophically as a nation to capitalize even in even in the
regular representational senses right of policy economics law education health care
we have totally failed to take care of our nation its infrastructure our people their
well-being their future um which is the reason we have a nation now you can you can think like
well i'm anti-national great if this thing falls apart with you in it what you're gonna see prevail
in the place of the relatively benign systems that you see today will be abject tyranny right
you won't want to be alive in that kind of a thing so whether or not you're a fan of the united
states per se we take a nation we take our nation for granted we presume it will always be there
that it's at least relatively stable and reliable and so that is not the case i'm sorry
it's just not true pragmatically i mean unless you want to live in red china or under a russian
czar you'd better take care of what you've got right and actually care about it even if you
oppose many of its transformations and policies this is our nation and it's not just our nation
it's pivotal in world politics if our nation were to fall either via conflict or internal
transformation by being flooded with immigrants particularly say from china and or iran syria
et cetera um hamas hezbollah you're not gonna want you're not gonna like the outcome right
it's gonna be living here will be misery but if our nation falls
the rest of the nations are next in line right the west of the the rest of the democracies
are going they're not going to be able to stand on their own um whether or not we are
truly good or bennett benevolent or intelligent has nothing to do with it you've got the ravenous
maws so to speak of various corporate and national players that are racing for dominance
and we have to protect our own nation whether we are patriots or not
it's the nation we live in
and it does take care of us to a degree and here's the problem on the left
which is where my mind you know imagines i would be right we have a bunch of imperatives
that are supporting the enemies of our nation and creating factions within like
political causing political schizogenesis right into smaller and smaller tribal cohorts
and some of the ideals that have infected the left the dei nightmare um which again you know
virtue
it's it's so bizarre that the branch of dialectic concerned and that introduced to us the phrase
virtue signaling is also the branch compromised by that
um
people have attacked the idea of meritocracy and i am still sort of digesting some of those attacks
but a friend of mine who'd been a nurse
uh in a neonatal trauma ward for 30 years and is about to retire right she this woman worked in
vietnam of women's rights and women's bodies she was in her retirement speech which she has
to have vetted by the administration she said that another that a woman who had inspired she
was talking about a woman who had inspired her and how articulate she was and i said you can't
say articulate and my friend said what what you're like yeah you can't use that word because it
it segments people into a hierarchy and the people who are not included will be offended
the people who are not articulate may take offense um i think they actually went so far as to call
that hate speech right in other words to sing the virtues of another human is hate speech because
those humans who have not achieved or right will will feel somehow deprived of of human value or
so yeah what the actual fuck is going on
i mean that same woman underwent a long complex assault on her
her moral and ethical inclusive behavior i mean this is someone who spends her life arguing
for inclusion so we have this problem where there's essentially a a library of thrips or mental
diseases that have somehow been injected into the left under the guise of producing equality
valuing diversity and being inclusive of all people right this is the idea of equal treatment
that's what's on the flag right the idea of equal treatment what's underneath it i don't
fucking know but i mistrust it catastrophically it has the stink of psyops all around it to me
uh so it's very confusing for me in this phase of my life i watched my father become conservative
as he got older and i was like the fuck is wrong with him what is he thinking right he is can't be
good he's a he votes republican what what my dad but i now and it's not just because of aging
it's not just for that i've aged um
i can see there's a real danger here of our country being taken apart from the inside
and essentially taken over from the inside along with the problem of the catastrophic
inefficiency of bureaucratic government right that's a real fucking thing
um we as a people if we were unified
it's all good it's all good
if we as a people were unified with and for each other in the history of future of life on earth
as i might say um then you know we could fund our government with probably
six percent of what it currently requires for funding maybe 12 at the most and with the
and we could fund the military with probably 10 percent of what it presently devours
and we could have an effective efficient economic political and hopefully ideological
nation
right now what we have is the opposite of that but even that is incredibly valuable and it
mustn't fall if it falls the rest of the planet's going with it to whatever force takes it over
so you know if you don't want your grandkids presuming that we get to have any marching around
in little red costumes with a star on their pocket i don't care what your politics are you have to
care about the the history and future of this nation which is our nation if you're american
and if you live in a western nation which is allied with the united states then you know this
also has to be your concern because your nation won't survive very unlikely to survive the devastation
of ours you might not like grocery stores but if they go away what are you going to do
grocery stores are a huge problem i agree the the trash the products the poison the money
the politics the power i get it
so yeah we're in we're in bad trouble it's clear that china has set its sights on the united states
and they're pouring well-trained cooperative chinese mostly young men into our our nation daily
i mean you had a cup of coffee it's getting filled with motor oil i mean it doesn't take
much motor oil that that's not coffee anymore right how much motor oil do you got to put in there
not much so it's very peculiar for me in my in my accelerated decrepitude to find myself
concerned in a similar way about immigration this problem must be solved this cannot be
uh bait for political um
you know bait for political count accusation counter accusation bullshit debates of lying
politicians this has to be dealt with this nation won't survive many of the modern nations are facing
in the near-term future monumental waves of immigration and how are they going to cope with
that you know if we have a society with any any degree of intelligence at all the problem
must be seen as crucially important and has to be addressed in a bi you know in a multi-partisan
display of actual human intelligence about the future of our country
so i'm quite concerned about this um china is doing a lot of very weird things and they may be
straight-up siapping the united states the citizens both for and against like once you have an issue
that can divide americans just pump that shit up and you win it's really easy to overcome an
opponent that has 16 fucking conflicting uh like direct directives in consciousness
oh yeah do you know nancy de stefanis who the heron lady i've seen her i've never met her yeah
oh she's she's quite a character um i hadn't seen the second one but i just yeah there's three
yeah much easier to see them in the evening
so
hmm all right so i'm kind of the thing that i really wanted to point out here
is that many of the ideological underpinnings of current left-leaning politics, which, for example, you know,
hmm, what are they doing that's really troubling to me?
If I'm going to have brain surgery, or if my banker is going to do something with my investments,
or if there is a complex threat to my security, health or well-being,
what I don't want is people who are selected based on some criteria about how many people of each ethnicity,
religious belief, gender perspective, we need to get on the team so that everybody's equally represented.
What I want are experts. I don't care what they're, you know.
The selecting criteria is demonstrations of skillfulness and efficacy at doing whatever it is that's crucial to our survival,
or, you know, the, um, sorry, a little distracted there.
Yeah, it's not so much merit as it is expertise, right, the demonstration of expertise.
I don't want to go to a doctor that was given a certificate, not because they passed the boards or whatever,
but because, for example, no, I'm not going to make an example.
You can imagine the cartoon example I would make. They belong to this ethnicity, this peculiar variation of human gender,
and this peculiar ideological and or religious background.
Um, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
We need, in the places within our society that demand skill, we need people with skill, not people who are selected to fulfill a quota system.
Um, the underlying milieu among the Democrats is apparently something loopy, which is pro, apparently it's like pro-immigration or something.
Yeah, let everybody come in who wants to come in, or something like this. I don't even know.
I don't actually know, but the functional outcome of the battle in our political system, the battle between 19 different lying factions,
each lying for their own reasons, is going to get us snuffed. It's not going to work even in the short term.
Um, you can't let hundreds of thousands of people per month from other countries pour into our nation and conserve the structure of the polis, at all.
And that structure, our nation and the future of many other nations depends on it, whether we like it, you know, whether we approve or not isn't the question.
It's a structural thing. If you pull the pin on that grenade, the planet is going to go off, right?
So I'm quite concerned about what I've learned about that recently, and I take it very seriously.
And I'm certainly neither a Republican nor a Democrat anymore, but my, although I believe in the idea of an intelligent democracy, I've never seen one established,
the exception cases are small groups, perhaps resembling like the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society or something.
Small integral groups who function for the sake of a noble mission together, that can work out well.
But I've never seen a nation established according to these principles.
Ours was counterfeited, you know, very quickly after its inception, and taken over by interests of power, money, actual prison nearing, and so forth.
So that's a big mess.
Now, where am I here? Okay.
So there's one, I'm very concerned that I hear people speaking Chinese all the time all around me, and I love the sound of other languages, and I love the diversity of the place in which I live.
I actually do really believe fundamentally in diversity, but it has to be enacted.
It can't be provisional, and it can't be diversity over, you know, as an overlord, right? Either.
It has to be naturally, to some degree, naturally enacted, with, you know, experiences of cooperative life paths, and concern, and education, and so forth.
Okay, so there's one more thing. I'm going to pause for a minute and see if I can come back with it.
Alright, Israel and Palestine.
I'm not very well educated. I know little pieces of information about both, you know, both sides.
The problem, one of the problems we have today is that because false flags are possible, we have to consider them, even if the data doesn't immediately point in that direction.
Alright.
The United States has certainly conducted a number of crucial false flag operations to get us into wars.
Now, the idea that somehow the Israelis co-opulate some faction within the Israeli government, set up what happened is distant from my thought and concern.
Nonetheless, I need to mention it because it's fucking 2024, and the faces, whatever we see on the face of phenomena, is just not even half of what's going on.
No matter what might be going on, and I don't know what's going on there. I honestly don't.
But, taking it face value,
killing civilians is fucking unjustifiable. I don't care who's doing it. I don't really care why.
And the atrocities committed ostensibly by Hezbollah and Hamas are real atrocities.
The atrocities responsibly committed by Israel are real atrocities.
These are fundamentally unjustifiable.
Now, I've heard Sam Harris say things like, look, you got a bunch of people running around out there who are like, we're going to kill you and your children as an act of religious expression and faith.
Like, we prefer killing you and your kids to our own survival, right?
That you have to basically obliterate any faction of humans that thinks this way. You've got to get rid of them.
Especially if they're a significant threat.
I've heard him say things like this. I don't really understand exactly what he means by get rid of them. Obviously, he means kill them.
But what does he mean? How do you determine who is them?
Israel as a nation is endowed with the power to defend its interests with military might.
But blowing up hospitals and schools because this is where Hamas and Hezbollah like to hide their infrastructure, there's no, you can't, it's impossible to justify that.
