Whatever what you would see in the cone would depend on the angle of perspective.
And the body would be a transceiver.
If you imagine a non-physical octopus with a single physical tentacle in the physical context of time space,
then I am that little tentacle. But the tentacle is not me.
Now, I don't know, is my pinky me?
If I were to be divided from it, I would certainly be very upset.
And I would be likely to feel that I had been deprived of something integral to my person.
Although I think like I am a man.
And I speak as if I am an American English speaking man.
American by birth.
I don't. The part of me that feels for example like an American is extremely small.
The part of me that feels like a man much vaster.
But the part of me that feels like a being or an organism is a million fold vaster than the part of me that feels like a man.
And I've spoken of this before.
So I think what I am is a kind of an experiment and probably a learning experiment that happens in a particular kind of context
and somehow edifies something that isn't my body and isn't necessarily in my body, but is associated with my body.
So for example, it is obvious to me that my consciousness, so to speak, the Derenish consciousness can travel without my body traveling.
Can far see without me traveling to another place physically.
But most of the actual experience that I have of the traveling consciousness, which is, you know, let's face it relatively little.
A little bit. Not none, but a little bit.
In almost all of the experiences of traveling where my body is for example supine asleep on the couch or whatever.
The thing that travels doesn't really identify as me, as Deren.
There's either no Deren content whatsoever, or there's very modest Deren history, persona, thought, language, all these things.
And that's quite fascinating. You know, I've been listening over the past couple days to both interviews with both Bob Monroe and Tom Campbell.
And Tom seems to be of the opinion that Tom's a simulationist, right?
He thinks this is all. This is all being rendered only when observed, right? The system renders only that which is observed.
So you're not even there unless something's observing you.
I think the perspective is useful and interesting. I don't think it's true yet.
I don't intend to treat my life as if something like that is true.
Tom, who clearly does, seems to succeed relatively effectively using such a purview.
It works for him.
I just don't buy it. I think whatever's going on is far.
I mean, there's sort of one fundamental question, which is, is existence personal or not?
And in most of the views of many travelers out of the body, it's not.
But it's possible that the perspective deprives itself of personation.
And it's also much easier.
There are certain kinds of problems, mostly having to do with terror.
And if there's one thing we will feel terror about, it's anything that resembles the oncoming train in the tunnel of our lives that is death.
Anything that has that stink or reminds us of death were likely to recoil.
And this is part of why meditators can get stuck, right?
They often approach liberation at least once or twice in their early training if they're diligent, sometimes even if they're not.
And then they immediately recoil.
The first question is something like, what is going on?
And then the next move is, like, the first question is, you know, insight begins to arise as awareness and consciousness is what is happening?
And then the second thing is, fuck this, right? I'm out.
And they, you know, go right back to the cage, so to speak.
And I have some experience with that myself.
Often what happens to me is, oh, this is very strange.
And then a feeling of wonder and then immediately a feeling of terror.
I remember one experience where I was probably sitting up in my astral body while I was asleep in my physical body.
And I could see the room.
My girlfriend was asleep to my left.
I could see the particular lay of her hair on the pillow.
And I could see the room as if it were well lit and as if I could see the whole room at once from a point, you know, near where my body or head was.
And first there was like the sense of, wow, this is really, I didn't know I was, I didn't know I was asleep.
I thought I was awake. I thought I had woken.
And I thought, this is really great.
This is great.
And then there was a sense of wonder and kind of a sense of awe.
But then the next thing I felt or sensed, it was as if I was the only being in the universe.
I've never had a feeling like that before, though, you know, in some of our human experiences of isolation and loneliness and so forth, we may approach that kind of very painful to our humanity feeling.
It's very weird.
That feeling was terrifying.
The feeling of utter aloneness.
There never was anyone else, there never is anything else there cannot be.
There is only this consciousness, me.
And that scared me.
Oh, my God.
With that I rushed back into my sleeping body and opened my eyes.
And as I recall, nothing changed.
Opening my eyes had no effect on the visual situation.
That's what I recall.
I don't know, you know, what actually happened. I have no idea.
I don't, first of all, if reality is this, he mustn't, I have no idea why he would use the concept simulation.
And you have the same problem with the concept hologram.
A simulation must be a simulation of something.
And there must also be a simulator.
And there has to be some way of, quote, running, unquote, the simulation.
So this model seems to ironize the mysteries.
The mysteries of origin.
Nature, participation, and so forth.
I like a lot of what Tom Campbell has to say.
And he's obviously deeply experienced.
So I'm not going to, I'm not, right, in this domain.
So I'm not going to try to put him down or say his perspective isn't useful.
It's clearly very useful.
I just doubt it.
I don't know that reality or existence or the universe or so forth is personal.
But as an embodied human, it feels personal to me.
Those people laughing must feel that it's personal or it couldn't be funny.
What Tom and Bob both agree on is that our human birth is a, it's basically like a preschool.
We're here to, we're here to learn and grow.
But we're also, I strongly suspect there's something a little weirder going on that I like,
that is at least implied by what they say, which is that it's as if the universe grew a new layer.
And we are here in part to explore the layer, but in part to import into this layer the knowledge of the
original layers beneath or beyond it.
That's my own gloss on what they said.
And that seems commensurate with much of what I myself have managed to un-conceal.
To discover.
If covering something was so good, why is discovering so much better?
I'm a little too warm today. I've got too much clothing on.
Here in San Francisco, through most of the year, you will prosper.
You'll be physically comfortable in accordance with the number of layers you are carrying or wearing.
To, you know, to a degree, three, four, somewhere in there.
I am not merely a man, though I do ID, quote, unquote.
God.
As far as I am concerned, from a biological perspective, there are precisely two human genders.
One capable of reproduction, one not.
And nature is not commonly, it's obvious in nature there's wiggle room around categories.
There's a kind of quantum fuzziness to definition where our definitions apply to a part of the curve where most instances of what is being referred to
cluster.
This is how language generalizes in order to specify categories and members of categories and so forth.
I recently had a very modern and peculiar experience.
A friend of mine invited me to a local spa, which I had not been to before.
It's in a not great part of town that used to be a terrible part of town when I first moved here, China Basin, I guess.
And it's called Archimedes Banya.
I guess a banya is a word in some language about something.
A place, a kind of a place where people bathe together or something.
And I was pretty nervous about going, to be honest.
To see on set of COVID, I've become fairly crowd avoidant.
And this presents a variety of social problems for me at my age.
But in this case, I decided that it was more important to see my friend and his friend than to preserve my customary cautions.
Prior to going, I read reviews.
Some of them were positive, but many were negative.
And the negative ones pointed out two specific, or maybe three specific problems.
One was that the place wasn't kept very clean.
One was that they let too many people in.
And one complained of the often mean-spirited tyranny of one of the workers there,
which I got to taste a little bit of when I was there.
They weren't wrong.
Although I also think that his superficial seeming severity was partly ingest.
But it wasn't all ingest.
And as he belonged to a marginalized ethnic group,
one might interpret it as, I've got to admit,
if, for example, my skin color was green,
and I was in a room filled with people whose skin color is orange,
and there are no green people there.
And the orange-colored people represent whatever you might imagine the wealthy or elite to represent.
And I had power over them in that context.
It might be difficult not to exercise a little bit of it.
I might struggle myself.
But yeah, the reviews weren't wrong.
At least about the peculiarly motivated overseer of the spa.
I enjoyed it.
It seemed clean enough.
And it was a little too crowded, maybe, but not much.
It was all right.
Dangerous to be in a hot, steamy environment, though I don't know chlorine's effects on,
I don't know, airborne chlorine gas's effects on humans or viruses.
And airborne chlorine gas kills humans, but in very small quantities it's a reasonable antiseptic.
So yeah, I actually had quite a good time there.
My friend was preoccupied, but his friend was brilliant,
and they were here to see the, like, a three- or four-day symposium at CIIS
with Ian McGillchrist and John Vervakey and others,
which I myself would have attended.
I wasn't able to get a ticket.
I went to the spa, and I am not uncomfortable.
Although these days I'm fat, so I'm a little bit embarrassed.
And I'm just talking about myself, not other people.
I'm overweight by my own standards.
But I've long been comfortable being naked around others,
and I've always thought nakedness was kind of a cool thing that could be introduced
into the bizarrely over-structured context of our common experience.
So when I was younger, me and my friends used to go streaking.
We would find things to do where, yeah, I mean, we had all kinds of adventures,
various unusual adventures in which we introduced being naked.
So I was a little concerned about my being overweight and body image.
But it's been quite a long time since I've been to anything like that.
We have another bathhouse here, at least one.
There used to be many.
There used to be a sort of scene here in San Francisco where bathhouses were a sort of way
to engage in public sexuality, primarily among gay men.
I don't know if there's any of that going on these days.
I'm sure it's against the law.
But we have another bathhouse here called the Kabuki that I've been to a few times
and always really enjoyed it.
And I did enjoy my time at the bathhouse.
But I don't mean but as in however.
I mean, but as in also here.
I saw something in person for the first time.
I saw a phenomenon in person for the first time that I'd really only seen in things like, what,
erotic cartoons or something.
There was what appeared to be a woman with very ample breasts who had a penis.
And she appeared to be there with a man who had a vagina as if they were a couple.
And to be clear, in such environments one respects basic principles of visual privacy and so forth.
One does not stare and goggle or oogle.
One keeps one's eyes sort of at eye level.
So, you know, mostly I did that.
But it seemed clear to me that the male appearing person had an actual vagina,
which personally I don't really care what one's politics are.
I'm not going to agree that there's no difference between an actual vagina and vaginaplasty.
I will never agree.
And if somebody says to me, well look like we're friends and I need you to treat me as if I have an actual vagina.
Okay, I might.
Under certain kinds of circumstances I might agree to play along nicely.
But I think the man had an actual vagina and the woman certainly appeared to have an actual penis,
though again I didn't perform a close inspection.
And I didn't feel uncomfortable about that.
I didn't feel judgmental.
It was kind of like that moment when I awoke, right?
