And I opened my eyes and nothing changed.
There was kind of a sense of wonder.
And there was a comedian in the back of my mind going, oh how fucking 2024 of you.
Nothing in me was felt offended or judgmental.
In fact I guess if someone had said, you know, if somebody...
The problem is that the scene is so artificial in a way.
But if somebody said like, how do you feel?
I might say something like, am I required to have a feeling about this?
What's the authority here?
If someone asked me how I felt in the actual situation as I experienced it,
I would say something like slightly bemused.
Wonder if that young injured raven will prosper.
I've seen him around. He got his right wing hurt.
Now I bring this up in the context of I am not a man, right?
Because on the one hand there's a sort of a natural rebellious inclination
to push against the constraints of categories and social constructs.
And if by gender we mean persona, then there's a billion genders.
But if by gender we mean biology, there are two.
For humans.
Edge case is not withstanding.
And again, as I said earlier with categories, there's always a little fuzz around the edges.
It's not explicit.
But what you can say is that there are things like there are no alligators which are birds.
Now then people will say, well, you know, those herons at the lake are the descendants of dinosaurs.
So that reptiles become birds.
I mean, what I'm trying to say is that the categories as they exist.
A guy just walked by me with a shirt that I sort of identify with.
And this is the power of advertising.
It said kind of fit, kind of fat.
Which I might identify with.
I work pretty hard to stay fit.
You know, I can keep up with you on a hike, but I'm carrying 20 extra pounds probably at the moment.
And by the way, you can see how that statement blurs two categories together, right?
Kind of male, kind of female.
No problem there.
But to outlaw the use of the word woman or man in academic contexts because could produce, you know, undesirable feelings in edge case psyches, right?
Great shirt.
One of you guys wearing a breakfast of champions shirt, alluding to Kurt Vonnegut earlier in the conversation.
Sorry, I'm going to be in a bit of a noisier area for a minute here.
You know, I'm very careful and curious about language categories, semantics, linguistics, psycholinguistics, neurolinguistic programming, hypnosis, all these things.
I mean, they're part of my domain of active study.
So, for me, that we decide to create linguistic categories that oppose or violate relatively strict categories such as those we might find in science or in the language itself.
No problem, right?
I just have different, I have, I can maintain different bubbles for different purposes.
If humans want to talk, if humans want to play social justice warrior, they'll find a willing combatant in me.
And if they want to talk about biology, then there's no problem understanding what the hell we're talking about.
Both things can exist.
If people say we want to be called this and that, I'm going to not have too much trouble going along with them.
But if they then want to prosecute others who don't speak that way, I will fight them.
And I don't rise to battle easily.
But policing, I mean, this is a kind of thought policing, right?
Where it's not just what you're not supposed to say, it's what you're not supposed to think.
And it's very ironic to see a disease that looks like that rising in the left.
One would expect this from the right, but it's almost as if the left has been inoculated with a schizo gene
that will shatter it into little bits, each pointing fingers at the others.
So I'm not a fan of that.
But as far as the people in the spa go, that was a very bemusing experience for me.
Unexpected.
When I was at the spas before, they were never coed.
There was a coed day, but you had to wear clothes.
And this spa is clothing optional and coed.
And by the way, if there's no genders, there's no such thing as coed.
And if the genders are explicit, we have other weird problems.
It's funny, you know, if I were sharp, I'd have staggeringly insightful things to say about this.
A peculiar feature of our modernity.
And at the moment, I'm speaking much more like a common person.
Like the man that I claim I'm not nearly.
I've always been particularly, I feel particularly comfortable around gay men.
I've had experiences of profound discomfort around gay women who were clearly upset at the fact of my masculinity.
Of course, not all of them are.
But some of those experiences were quite catastrophic for me.
I've generally found a feeling of communal bliss with creative intellectual minds.
And if one end of the spectrum is macho and the other end of the spectrum is feminine,
I have bits of me on the macho side, but a lot of me is on the feminine side.
I'm a feeling, intimacy, relation, creativity, play, oriented spirit.
That doesn't interfere with me being a man or being seen as a man.
And rather than go around dictating what other people should see when they look at me,
I trust them to form their own perspectives.
In language, if one is a male and says, I live in San Francisco,
many common people will immediately suspect or contrive an image where,
oh, I must be gay, but why would a straight guy live in San Francisco, for example, this kind of contrivance?
Which I, you know, they get over it.
I can imagine a situation where I could become very militant and go around declaring, for example,
I belong to the class of persons who identify as messianic.
So I want you to see me as a messiah or identify with a class of persons known as comedians.
So, you know, don't go around taking me seriously.
Very strange situation, as you can see from just imagining it.
The other day I was walking up the street in my neighbor, who I've known probably for 30 years.
My neighbor Steve, he had just come back from the corner market.
And he had a tube of chips.
And he said, you know, have you tried these?
And he offered me a few.
And I was like, oh, yeah, Pringles is like, no, they're like holistic version of Pringles.
And, you know, it was really the best kind of advertising, which isn't really advertising at all.
Someone just gives you something, and then thereafter you just fail to want something other than that.
So last night I was laying in bed wishing that I had these The Good Crisp Company chips.
So I just acquired some.
And, you know, the secret of marketing is to create desire and then fulfill it.
My son proposed a more nefarious version.
Create desire, fulfill it once or twice to the very expensive, lavish product.
Like, if you could determine whether someone's buying your product for the first time or not,
this would be very powerful in a marketing sense because you could deliver a relatively unforgettable experience the first time.
And then over preceding moments, or excuse me, yes, over future moments,
just keep delivering a less nutritious, you know, less expensive to produce.
You just keep dragging the bar down.
And then what you'll get is people buying it out of nostalgia for that experience that they remember as fundamental.
So they just keep trying to catch up to that memory of the first time,
which of course never happens and recedes into the distance with every new purchase.
And you might think, well, there are no companies doing that.
Now all the companies are doing that.
They just find a different dimension in which to deprive us of what we remember.
I myself am working on a product and the other day someone asked me,
well, what does it cost?
And I said, it's something that you won't miss and we prefer not to declare.
Which of course could be everything.
Because if we deprive you of everything, you won't be missing anything anymore.
There won't be anything to miss it with.
Thank you for joining me for this extremely ironic episode of Darren Blathers Into His Microphone.
I'm grateful for those of you who support my work by listening or participating.
And I wish you every beautiful thing in your precious human life.
But particularly insight and loving kindness from other living beings.
Bye-bye for now. I look forward to learning together again very soon.
