Hello everyone. Hello to you.
It is a sunny, warm afternoon here in San Francisco.
As I am creating this recording.
And I don't yet have a clear map of what I intend to explore or
in English euphemistically cover.
It's kind of a strange euphemism because usually to cover is to obscure or to hide.
So I guess the modal utility of this euphemism
is something like it resembles completeness.
A blanket could be understood to pervade over the entire
thunderfucking understructure of what it conceals.
The water here at the newly renamed Blue Heron Lake previously
We could call it the lake previously known as Stowe.
It's far too green and in fact far too blue-green.
Much more colorful than it should be.
And this is almost certainly because chemical agents
have been placed into the water by probably largely misguided institutions
in order to quote control the growth of algae.
Woe be unto any feature of nature that some ridiculous human institution
decides it is authorized to control.
One of the important stories about this that I was exposed to
involves
an Indian tribe or possibly a consortium of tribes
who traditionally hunt buffalo or bison.
And apparently at some point in not too distant history
may have to contact some ridiculous organization
or even more ridiculously named organization
such as the Bureau of Land Management or some wildlife
controlling nonsense place.
And so they applied to the dumb white colonizing people
who really know doodly squat about buffalo in the words of Kurt Vonnegut.
And broad tragedy there from ensued.
The wildlife possibly, I don't even know what to say here,
the ridiculousness is so thick that it's very difficult for me to continue
without just losing my mind, what is left of my mind.
They were told by whatever estranged from nature idiots
they were forced to consult that they would be given permission to hunt the buffalo
but only to hunt the elder non-reproductive males.
In other words the big old bull elephants.
So they hunted up some of them big old bull elephants as instructed.
The result was that the herds of the elephants, excuse me,
actually while I was speaking I saw a picture of an elephant on a package on the ground
and I was also thinking of bull elephants.
The herds of the bison that suffered the loss of many or most of their elder bulls,
the whole herds died the next winter.
So the dumb colonial American bureaucrats were really concerned about the longevity of the herds.
So they wanted to make sure that no bison capable of reproducing were killed
in order, you know, not entirely unreasonable hope
that the herds would continue to reproduce in a healthy and prosperous way
and thus be assured of longevity.
This illustrates the difference between actual understanding of living places and creatures
and what I'm going to call representational knowledge of them.
Because the representational knowledge fails to preserve
what we might think of as either extremely important features necessary to preserve
or possibly even the most important features.
It's certainly the non-killing.
They just put their nose out of the eyes and they just stayed there frozen.
They were like alive, you know?
It's very interesting.
It's so funny because I'm in San Francisco, there are many tourists, right?
And so there's a group of tourists.
I can't clearly identify their accent or the accent of the woman who was speaking.
What she was talking about was that she had become aware that turtles under some circumstances,
I didn't hear the whole talk, but apparently could create a situation where their snout
is above the surface of the water but they themselves are frozen in the ice.
And in this way can survive freezing or something similar.
And this is the kind of knowledge that representational sentients find very contagious.
And I have just become complicit in making an idea contagious
without actually knowing whether there's any validity to it
but trusting in general in the verity of the person speaking.
At least the intentional verity, the intent to say true things.
And the problem becomes for us humans the same kind of a problem that killed those herds.
We have institutions and organizations that know nothing of what it is truly important to know about being human
but know lots of little mechanical things like we have cells and reproduce.
We have immune systems.
I was speaking the other night with a friend.
New friend.
And he was talking of a tragedy that occurred with one of his closest friends.
Young woman, you know, otherwise healthy in all appearances.
She was vaccinated and shortly thereafter was married
and died of heart failure in her 30s.
I have had various perspectives on the safety and or efficacy of the vaccines
and I would argue the public face of most of science and some of medicine declared safe and effective.
I have myself clearly suffered severe side effects that may kill me or last the rest of my life
in the administration of the booster which I took somewhat naively, ironically enough.
The first dose didn't seem to produce any lasting problems that I could discern.
But you can see the problem here, right?
The people who not only don't know but are not trying to know
because with the vaccines politics and economics crashed into science
and what came out the other end definitely was not science.
Was not science in the sense of actually gathering the data carefully.
Was not science in the sense of carefully administering extreme caution
to any substance that will be injected into hundreds of millions or perhaps a billion people
and bluntly failing completely to conduct anything resembling adequate trials.
And I don't care what the counter arguments are.
I understand there was a house on fire situation. I don't care.
When one house is on fire you don't just spray something that will kill the whole neighborhood
over the coming few months because you're not sure how to put the fire out
or maybe the whole city or possibly the whole planet.
Now I'm not going to talk at length about the vaccine. It's not my goal today.
Or the vaccines.
But the idea that they were safe and or effective
I guess you can always dial what safe means down so low
that anything qualifies or you can just change the meaning of safety
since there's a threat and the threat is really scary.
It doesn't you know anything that helps is good and safe.
And there's a further problem here which I'll highlight just before I exit the topic
as Brett Weinstein has been very courageously declaring
in the aftermath of this actual fiasco
that probably killed or disabled more than a million people
maybe as many as five over time an unknown number.
We're not trying to gather the data.
There's no one out there. There's no system in place.
The various system is garbage.
There's no system in place to help us understand what actually took place.
What actually happened here.
In case this isn't obvious I am not an anti-vaxxer.
Vaccines are a profoundly important technological tool
in an age where we live in herd like proximity to each other.
Unless we want to just sort of dismiss medical technology altogether
or count on some earlier morph of it such as traditional Chinese medicine
or shamans and so forth which at our scale seems impractical.
I must admit in my brief experience with hospitalization
due specifically to the administration of the booster
the idea that that is where we put our sick people
that is where we go to heal is basically like being consigned to hell.
It is a terrible place.
It could be vastly worse than it usually is for sure it could be
but it's very bad and miserable to be there.
I understand why my father when he was dying of COVID
waited until the last possible moment to go to the hospital
even though earlier treatment could conceivably have saved his life
if the treatments were themselves effective.
Rather than determining what effective treatments were
the way triage doctors do treatment became a political issue
where doctors were prohibited from employing the intelligences we pay them to employ
in order to actually perceive, not declare, perceive
what treatments might be more useful than our standard treatment models
which let's face it lots of people died under millions again
millions of people died under these treatment methods.
So the doctors were prohibited from being doctors
and effectively their role was transformed from physician into sycophant.
You will treat only with these four drugs, blah blah.
You know, slaves or something.
That's one of the dumbest things you could do during a pandemic.
It would be hard to pick a dumber thing to do.
I guess one thing you could try is just actually snuff everyone who gets the illness.
Yeah, we could do human culling.
That might be dumber.
Or, you know, slightly less tragic but similarly absurdly ridiculous.
We could just ship all the people who got sick off to some place where they can't infect anyone else
except other people who are already sick.
Which by the way is pretty much what our hospitals look like.
The one place you do not want to go when you are feeling poorly
is the place where everyone around you is also feeling poorly
and is, you know, bleeding from the head or coughing up viscera, you know, dissolved viscera and so forth.
Yeah, worst place to be if you're having, if you're frightened or concerned about your health is a hospital.
Though, you know, granting at the same time that when what we call medical science actually does succeed
the success tends to be quite amazing and relieving.
When I went there, the treatments they offered seemed at least as dangerous as the condition that I was experiencing.
I refused them.
Governments, our government, the government of the United States
is not doing its job by doing the post-mortem on the vaccine situation.
And it's not post-mortem because we're still in like booster five or six or whatever, who knows.
And many immunologists at the beginning of the, or during the year or two into the pandemic
I used to listen to podcasts with collections of immunologists who were studying COVID
and the only thing they were really, they really thought might be helpful
was something we'd call a whole, a whole vaccine, excuse me, a whole virus vaccine.
And they were furious that governments were pretending, ours particularly,
they were acting as if infection with COVID did not confer immunity, any degree of immunity, or a reasonable degree,
which is completely fucking ridiculously stupid.
So, you know, the parable about the buffaloes, humans will think, ah, yes, the humans suck at understanding animals.
No, they suck at understanding organisms.
Our collectives are not oriented to relate with living places, beings, or planets survivably.
They are oriented to relate with them economically as structured fictions that can be manipulated to stack up cash in banks,
cash being a representation of value, right?
No, you cannot. That's not the way Thailand works.
I just heard someone yelling into their phone, no, you cannot. That's not the way Thailand works.
As if there's a way Thailand works.
Language is so fucking confusingly deceptive, my God.
It really is a thunder fucking under structure for living worlds and particularly human cognition, at least around here.
I imagine there could be worlds on which, nah, it's hard.
I guess there could be places where representational cognitive habits and structures that resemble those we rely on as humans
don't snuff the planet and the people using them, but I suspect they're very uncommon for a simple reason.
Actual intelligences based knowledge on relation, not derivation, not dead representations.
And the shun phoneme, T-I-O-N, or A-T-I-O-N.
There's a kind of a magic in that phoneme.
It means to gather something together at a point represented by the T.
The at, A-T, is to gather together at a point.
And the ion is the radiating particles emanating from that point.
At ion, asian, relation, interpretation, representation, preservation, derivation, so forth.
There's a sort of magic inside the English alphabet which I'd be happy to teach to my views about interested parties as I was taught.
But again, that's not my goal today.
What I was actually thinking, which is very strange in one sense and perfectly natural in another,
is that in the non-aristotelian logic of Alfred Korzybski, I am not a man.
And it's true because most of what I might be cannot be a man.
I am not a representation. I am not a word. I am not a concept.
Whatever I might be or become should mostly be outside of language completely.
And I tend to think of something like a cone pointing downward where one of the points that cone forms is my physical body.
And in the cone there are various organs, intelligences, or maybe singular intelligence.
But I don't think so.
