no answers, unfortunately. But yeah, fair enough. But we were, you know, one of the things we were
talking about is what are some other non-ordinary stuff that you can actually get at, right? And
this is some low-hanging fruit. Humans and hypnosis, something really unusual is going
on there. Why is there even a feature like that in our consciousness? It's almost as if there's a
built-in feature that wants to transfer authority to an external other under a situation of trust.
Right? And then once that's done, man, it goes all the way to, you can literally poke holes in
someone's veins, right? Hypnotize them, put a little pin in their vein, right? So that's bleeding.
And you can say, okay, stop bleeding, and it stops. And you can say, okay, now bleed again,
and it bleeds. It's like that profound. That's really insane. Really bizarre. It's almost like
there's, you know, there's another layer of our humanity going on all the time that we're not
aware of. Yeah. Now, of course, there are stage hypnotists, right? And what those people usually
do is they can read a group really well, and they can do a couple of little tests, and they'll find
out who's most suggestible from the group, and they'll pick those people, and they'll get those
people to come up and do demonstrations with them, because it's much, much simpler to hypnotize
someone who's more suggestible. And there are, I'm sure, you know, there are people who do things
that are fake. But hypnosis is not fake. Hypnosis is a real, it's a real thing. You know, France,
it goes way back, probably for language. And so that's one of the weird things about language
possibly being psychedelic, because if I can just say, like, five or 10 words to someone, and they're,
you know, zocked out, and now in some completely different state where they're incredibly
suggestible, and I can give them suggestions that they will carry out when they wake up,
that looks like some kind of something really crazy to me, because we wouldn't expect that
from the way we ordinarily communicate. Yeah, that's that. Maybe next time we talk,
I'll have investigated more, because I'm very curious now. Yeah.
All right, so, but speaking of language, there's poetry, I think, is another
modality. And actually, that's coming out soon, the infinitely pronged hunger for life,
which, which has this effect to some extent, you know, depending on who you are and what your
context is. But already on early readers, it's had some of this state transitioning effect.
And a big purpose of that is, well, there's a ton of different overlapping purposes, but, and
also just non-purposing thickness of being just, you know, thickening experience as it is without
any purpose. But one of the purposes is, is kind of flowering out language again into the full
internal felt sense of words and metaphors and relations between languages from its hollowing
out by, I guess, the thrifts of different, all the different thrifts that are trying to eat it alive,
make it singular. And so yeah, and both, both with this book I wrote and also with the poetry that
I've read. Yeah, also the news, I would call them psychedelic states, but also they're, they're,
they're like permanent state, like I can read a poem and it, in rare cases, it'll, it'll permanently
shift my way of being and my perception, not like hugely like a, like I'm suddenly tripping all the
time, but in a pretty significant way. That's, that's yeah, very powerful given that it's.
It's true. There's, there's something magical. Yeah, it's true. There's something magical in,
in the poetry that reaches us, right? The stuff that really affects us. I mean, I've been a poet
for 40 years and I've written a lot of poetry, but I've also read, read quite a bit of poetry to
and hung out with poets and wrote together and things like this. When we first spoke,
like your language has a, has a poetic foundation to it, even when it's not like actual poetry,
it's got that foundation.
It's language is like a wide open field rather than categorized is the best way I can describe,
like what it means to have a poetic foundation, at least in the context of
transferring that into non poetic language. Yeah. And that you're writing 100% has that.
That's labor to it. Thank you. It's very kind for you to say so.
All right, let's refocus here.
I think as we talk,
shake up the fluid. Oh, yeah. So when we first spoke, it seemed like we both have a vision of
some of the problems that are facing modern humans.
And we both also seem to have at least dreams of what we might be able to do instead
or in spite of the situations that we face.
And you had a peculiar, you presented a peculiar and interesting idea about how humans could get
together and sort of not resist, but become free together. You seem to have a vision about this.
And I have a vision to, I mean, I have a couple of different ones.
But do you remember what I'm talking about from our earlier conversation, our first one?
Prompt me with which aspects. It was as if you had an idea to make a certain kind of school.
Well, if it's the same one, I don't recall the one what I was talking about with you last time.
But the vision as it is now,
I'm trying to find the right way in.
And being inspired by the grass actually. I'm trying not to describe it as a conceptual
framework, you know what I mean? And to get at the core of it. So give me a moment.
Of course.
Yes, take your time.
Yeah, the
yeah, the four connections that form would form the building blocks, I think, of
how we can collectively break out of the, the trisp colonization is initiation rituals.
So I school, I think is too, it kind of as a word in how we currently conceived of it, right,
unclaimed, unreclaimed from the oppressions that have been embedded into that word is,
is it, it universalizes a single initiation ritual structure, which is the one that we
have currently, you know, through high school, and like, there's a bunch of initiation rituals
there. And then in college, you have a bunch of initiation rituals and then in adulthood,
we're like society is full of really intense initiation rituals that feel quite normalized to us.
Like going to a university is like a, you're leaving your community and your parents,
and you're transferring to the authority of like an institution that is consisting of teachers and
administrators, etc. Like it's a very intense initiation ritual. Yes, it's an institutional
initiation. Yeah, yeah. So that's why I would avoid the word school to really kind of be clear
at that. I was just trying to steer us in the right direction. Yeah, that train of initiation
rituals is, is not to be replicated. So it's not like a school that just has like that same,
like for example, you have like summer school, you have like, what's that place called? There's
a place in California that's like an alternative college. Well, there's a lot of, but there's one
of this new college here in the city. Yeah, there's, it's one somewhere in nature. I forget the name,
but the point is that, no, not excellent. I forget. There's also Minerva and there's, there's,
there's all kinds of alternative college structures. But what they all share is that
they're still college structures and they still replicate that same initiation ritual structure.
They just transfer like the content, but they're not transferring the, they're not changing
what we're being initiated into on a fundamental level. And that's, I think that's the key where we
want to be focusing, not institutionally, or at least not exclusively. So it's not like, oh,
let's build like a new institution that's going to have, you know, initiation rituals that every
teenager is going to go through in the turn 18, not, not at that level, at least like initially,
maybe that can emerge out of it eventually, but on a more local level. So both in our own lives,
like vision quests are a good example, you know, where you go out into the forest on your own.
You can use the structure of a vision quest, like there's a structure, but even if you just go out
like the last week, until a few days ago, I was just camping on my own without any like
vision quest structure, but it was still an initiation ritual out of the city where I was
living before, into not city, incorporating all that is not city. And it was effective, like it
works for what I wanted out of it. So kind of improvising initiation rituals as you go through
life, and they don't have to come from like Buddhism, and you know, you don't have to just
adopt a foreign initiation ritual to replace. Right, you don't have to go to go pick one off the
shelf. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, you can, you can, you can just innovate one on the spot in the way that
works for you individually and collectively. So I've also had spontaneous initiation rituals with
friends, which are also really powerful and they shift our relationship tangibly.
And then you can also begin and a lot of people have done this to create initiation rituals that
are more systematic. So there's a lot of somatic therapy stuff that I find very interesting.
That's actually an area in Western society that's really, really exciting that I feel like a lot
of people aren't aware of. The level of development of somatic therapy and contact improv and different
forms of embodiment and relational embodiment between humans is really in the last 50 years
has like really massively developed. And there's a lot of new stuff emerging now. It's like really
cool area to look into and profound, like it's I feel like historically new. But so things like
that is where you start more systematically creating initiation rituals. And I'm also looking in with
for myself and with, you know, some people I'm working with and to creating some initiation
rituals of different forms. But the key thing is that the point is not to like find the initiation
ritual that we can all participate in to design the key initiation ritual, but to realign our focus
to be
living with our own initiation rituals as they arise in the context of our life,
which may be are taken off the shelf, right, from other religions. That's totally like I'm
doing Qigong. And that's, you know, Qigong is obviously coming from Taoism. It's not something
I came up with. And that's an amazing initiation ritual for me into grounding and alignment and
understanding my energy body and shifting from being externally focused to being grounded in my
internal energy flow. But so both off the shelf as well as the thing I just mentioned about going
to the forest or hanging out with friends and then something spontaneous arises, you know,
just attuning to that. And for me, that is the core of, you know, initiation ritual by initiation
ritual entering into a new state of being and a form of adulthood that is in the, you know,
in the accumulation of all these initiation rituals is substantively and permanently different
from and sustainably different from the standard modern healing.
Um, what does initiation mean to you?
The transitioning from the state you're currently in,
either individually or in a group. So it could be a collective state into a different state.
That is, that is like the state that is pulling you. So if you're right, we're all getting older.
So that already there's tons of initiation rituals into the next stage of being an older
body and older consciousness and older mind. Also our relational structures are changing
with other humans with the world around us. And also are just internally,
you know, we have some kind of experience, like let's say a psychedelic experience or
non-ordinary experience or we fall in love or, you know, stuff happens all the time,
which is maybe not related to getting older, but it's, it pulls you into a new state,
like a new state is calling for you to enter it. And then the initiation ritual is where you
allow yourself and you or the group to enter the new state and ground in the new state
as the centrality. So you're not still in your old state and you're kind of tickling the new state
or pulling a little piece. You're really like, you're stepping into this new state. Like it's a step
rather than like a trickle. That's really, it's like the force and the finality of that transition,
I think is what the initiation ritual, what initiation is.
It strikes me that a good conversation is a bit of an initiation.
Right.
100%. Yeah.
I mean, there's scales, right? Like you can have a huge.
Of course.
And you have microinitiations. Yeah.
Right. I'm going to wrap up this phase of the interview and we'll be back in about five minutes.
Yeah.
Oh, each one's going faster. That's great.
Say again.
Go get started. Each one's going faster. It feels like.
All right. See you in five.
Yeah.
