So, part three of my conversation with Luca Rade, and we were talking about the grandmother
feeling of the redwood forests under the influence of psychedelics of some kind, previously.
How old were you when you first, we can come back to that specific moment if we wish, but
how old were you when you had your first experience with psychedelics?
I was, I guess I was 20, and I was pretty lucky actually because my girlfriend at the
time, she was really into psychedelics, she actually founded the psychedelics club at
Princeton, I don't know if it still exists, but yeah, so it was while we were both there,
we weren't dating at the time yet actually, but we were best friends, and since she was
like 16, her dad was growing mushrooms under his bed, and she fed them and then things
went from there.
I think with him she did it or something, but so she had a whole history of having already
taken them and she knew a lot about them, and I was really skeptical, I was definitely
not wanting to, I was kind of in a pretty rigid mindset, like I wanted to study history,
I was, I mean there were already like symptoms, so to say, of my more open way of being that
since emerged, but it was still, it hadn't, the shell hadn't fully cracked yet, but she
ended up convincing me to take them, you know, from talking about it for ages and ages, so
I went in both with a very intimate loved one, and with a lot of knowledge, both from
reading about it and from someone who'd taken them a lot, and in a very safe environment,
it was, it doesn't sound very safe, it was in a library, in the Princeton library, like
in a private room, but it was the summer, there was no one around really, and we booked
it out for the whole day, so like it was ours to use for the whole day, and yeah, then we
had the trip and it was not at all what I expected, obviously, you know, it never, it never is,
even now whenever I take psychedelics, it's always a new thing from what you expect, and
yeah, I mean, that's all I'll say about that first trip, I guess, except to say that it was
the non-formalized context of it, I feel like was really, really important, like I think it would,
I would have had a very different relationship with psychedelics, that would have been much worse
if my first trip had been like, you know, with some professional facilitator or, you know, in a
chair with the music and my eyes blinded or something like that, it just, there's just
something about the energy of psychedelics for me personally, that that is like antagonistic with,
and it kind of inhibits their ability to really like, just break your frames open, and like,
basically expose you to a new way of being on a very visceral level, which is, which is their power,
yeah. Yes, I mean, I think, I mean, I have a vast array of thoughts on the topic,
and I think that casual recreational use, I'm not the hugest fan of it, and I'm also
modestly opposed to the idea that psychedelics are like the doorway to enlightenment,
that there's problems in those perspectives, and I've seen people wrecked by them too,
yeah, so I'm conscious about them, but I do, I have had psychedelic experiences,
a reasonable number of them, and yeah, I'd be curious to hear, unless you've already talked to
me. Well, I mean, my first experience was like at 13, with a bunch of problems, they had some,
you know, sheets of acid, but perhaps, can't remember if it was the first time or the second time,
but I was walking around in urban Stockton, you know, 13 year old boy, kind of a stoner kid,
and I was walking past Greenbelt, right, it's sort of like a space between some of the
apartment complexes and houses, right, it's like a Greenbelt,
and there was a young eucalyptus tree there, and it was as if it literally tapped me on the shoulder,
and then, like this explosion of love, like nothing I'd ever had any experience of in my
lifetime just came out of this tree into me, and I realized we're missing out, like we're
asleep, like something's wrong, if we, if that's possible for that to happen, and we're not having
an experience like that, something's like gone terribly wrong, right, and I guess the other thing
that was very peculiar was just the, you know, I think psychedelics for some people they lead to
certain kinds of, certain modes of insight, but it's incredibly difficult to bring that insight
back to the other side, whereas there are other kinds of non-ordinary experiences where it's
not that it's not difficult, the insight comes easily, right, back with us from the experience,
and I tend to have a little more trust of those for some reason.
Yeah, what kind of other non-ordinary experiences are you speaking of?
Say again?
What kind of other non-ordinary experiences?
I mean, I've had lots of different kinds, the most significant one was an event that lasted
nine months in 2002, where it was like having another, yeah, it was like having a highly advanced
intelligence that was friendly to humans with my mind at all times, but I've had, let's see,
I've had really profound experiences with insects.
There was a situation where I was with a dying wasp, and I had the, I can't say what actually
happened, but what it felt like was that there was a bond arose between us, a very intimate bond
instantly, and the wasp like dumped the entire history of her people into my mind and my heart,
right, so like massive heroism over huge epochs of time, billions of queens, the cycle of life
and death fighting, the queen's fighting for who becomes fertile and facing, you know,
forest fires and bears and, you know, all of these amazing stories just poured into me as if they were
my own story. And once again, you know, after an experience like that, I just feel like what are we
doing here? Like, this is, we're not being human yet, right, like something's very broken if we're
not having experiences like this more commonly. So, and then there's dreaming, there's non-ordinary
experiences. So, I would sort of say like there's things that happen with nature, these can happen
with the body of water, stream, river, lake, the ocean. There's things that happen with organisms,
and there's things that happen with trees, but then there's also things that happen with dreaming.
Dreaming is probably the like the low hanging fruit of where we can actually get at very profound
non-ordinary experience without, for most of us, too much effort.
No, I mean, I've had a religious history. I don't know if you have.
Not directly, but my kind of indirectly through my grandparents.
Yeah, so, I mean, I was an atheist but interested in magic throughout my young life.
Then I had a bizarre Christian conversion experience around the age of 19.
There was a span where I was mostly Christian but couldn't hang out with Christians because
they seemed like they were insane. Then, you know, I started studying Zen Buddhism around 25,
which isn't really a religion. And then things got started to complexify after that until I had,
you know, the experience with in 2002, which pretty much changed everything I'd ever thought about
anything. So, yeah, I guess I have some trouble
with the idea that psychedelics introduces us to insight because I've rarely met someone who
could demonstrate insight they've received that way. Maybe rarely isn't even the right word,
I think never. It's probably the right word. It's basically a little pessimistic. And perhaps
you're an exception, right? I'm not. It's not, you know, it's not. Yeah, I mean, maybe I can share
something now to survive this first case study. Before I do that, you said we're not being human
yet, which that really struck a chord with me. Like, we're not experiencing this. I feel like
with all this, like, God is emergent and birthing God and stuff. Well, that frame is great as well,
but we're not being human yet is like the core like feeling of it. Yes, this is one of the things
we meshed about immediately when we first began speaking, you know, in our earlier conversations,
yes. Because we want, I don't just want, I'm not, yes, of course, I want to live my life and have
the experience of being full, you know, more fully human. But something's wrong, planet-wide,
like the humans are in a terrible array of nightmare situations. So there's medicine
somewhere for this. Yeah. Yeah. And then so for the psychedelic thing, yeah, it's, well, it's,
yeah, I mean, I agree with you with the dangers of psychedelics. And, yeah, I've also seen many
people, you know, it kind of wrecks them in different ways. So, yeah, I don't know, I don't
really, I'm trying to figure out, like, what would I want to say about psychedelics as a whole?
There's actually nothing. They're just like, it's very context dependent, I think is the only thing
Yeah. It's, if it works for you, then it works. Or like, if it arises, you know, in your context,
then it works, then it works. And if it doesn't, it doesn't, if you never take it, it's no issue,
like it's, there's no like, way of being that is like systematically inaccessible to you. It might
be harder, like, you know, maybe, like, ideally you would find another route, but it's, it's not the
only path. There's never only one path to something. And, yeah, yeah, that does seem like an important
frame on them. There's something I'm trying to say here, which I'm not figuring out what it is.
They're, they're part of life, I think is what you're trying to say.
Well, okay, I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm going to, let me clarify what I mean by part of life. I
don't mean like, they're part of life or I mean, what I mean, they're, they're like, they're not on
a different plane of existence from the rest of life, I think is the key thing I'm trying to get at,
which I think is how they're often talked about or interfaced with.
But like, for example, with my relationship with psychedelics is like, when I take a psychedelic,
it reveals some new state of being to me. And then in the next like year, usually it's around a year,
sometimes longer, shorter. In my day to day life, I sometimes systematically and sometimes very
chaotically like build towards that state. And by the end of the year, the state that was revealed
to me by the psychedelics has been like in a, in a transmuted form, like just embedded in my
day to day life. I've never been like, it's not like it's like every time I take it, it's like a
new realm and I come back. And it's like, you know, it's like separated, it's like going to heaven
and coming back for something. It's like in life. So I think that's what I'm trying to get at. So,
which means it's not necessary in order to reach certain states, you know, other paths work.
And if you do take it, it's important to, I think, be with it as within life and not treat it as like
a different work, a different realm or something like that. Yeah.
Yeah, I mean, I think one of the things that happens and it's very surprising
is that much like in dreaming and certain particular states of dreaming,
there's a feedback that begins to occur where not just our senses, but also what we could refer
to as our consciousness, the processes that are normally operating invisibly in consciousness
start to interact with their own origin in consciousness, right? So there's a feedback
effect so that you have in your vision, for example, you might see things sort of warping
or breathing. And really what's probably going on there is straight up that you're having experience
of the state of your visual neurons before they have completely formed an image. They're forming
an image and the forming, you're having experience of the forming in your visual field, right? So
it's like the processes of consciousness start to sort of bend back and interact with themselves.
And this is a recipe for magic, you know, I don't necessarily mean, you know, like ritual magic or
something like that. I mean, magic is in beyond our common experience. But one of the things you
were saying is, no, no, it's not beyond our common experience. It's part of our common
experience. It's one layer there, right? Let them integrate, if I understood.
Yeah, yeah, you're actually literally right about that. Like, he wasn't an advisor, but I almost
worked with him Nigel Goldenfeld, who's a physicist officially, but he does a lot of ecology.
I actually gave a talk that I attended where he was literally saying this, that the visual effects
on acid are caused by the removal of the suppression of the interference patterns that are
already there, which are the same interference patterns that cause zebra stripes, like in the
developmental zebra. It's the same mathematical process, actually. It's funny because I think
there were some studies, I worked with a neuroscientist and I have for about 15 years, but
I think there were some studies where they did brain scans of people who'd been given
psilocybin. And they were expecting to see all this activation. But what they saw was actually
areas that are normally highly active, inactive, right? It was like, and some of this was the
transition from inhibition to open, right? But others of it was like certain things that are
normally not inhibited or inhibited. And this was very, very shocking, right? They thought,
we're going to see wild activation all over the brain. And what they saw was deactivation of
certain features and unusual inhibition of other features and things like this.
Of course, we are trapped in the metaphors we're scripted to believe. And so we think that
excitement equals activation, for example, seems like a natural corollary.
One of the things I wanted to suggest, and I'm curious what you think about this.
So I'm interested in things that change our minds and also that change our perspectives or
our awareness or our consciousness. And you were speaking earlier in a way that I've never heard
anyone talk before that was really interesting about language. You were saying that it's like
a physical tool, right? Literally, it goes inside us, changes our body, changes our minds,
the same way that an actual physical thing would. And of course, it's vibrations and
its tempo and its tones and this kind of thing. It turns out that after long experiment with language,
it looks to me like language can be used as a psychedelic. There are certain ways of playing
with language that produce very similar results, at least short term. And then we also have the
other truly bizarre elephant in the living room of what the hell is hypnosis? Have you ever been
hypnotized? I haven't actually no. Have you ever seen someone hypnotized in front of you?
Not in person, no. I like to, but I haven't yet. Yeah, this is one of the strangest things I've
encountered. I mean, I've studied it for many years now. I'm not an expert, but I've placed people
in trance and I've been placed in trance and it's just staggering. I mean, I remember the first time
when I was being, I had, so I had accidentally learned how to hypnotize people and wasn't
realizing that I had done so. So I'm like stumbling through my life and this thing happens.
But eventually I go to like a hypnosis meetup where they're just going to train you, you know,
how to do an induction. And I was pretty skeptical. You know, I'm like, what is this?
Really? But also curious and open-minded. And I remember, you know, they taught us a routine.
The routine is pretty universally useful. It doesn't work on everyone, but you know, it works.
It's a very simple routine. So we practiced a little bit. And then it was our turn to be
hypnotized. And a woman just stood in front of me and said, would you like to feel better right now?
And I said, yeah. And she said, okay, I'm going to touch you between your eyes. And when you feel
my finger, touch your forehead, you're going to go immediately into trance. And she went like this.
And the whole world changed. Like, I was just like, is this, I felt so good. And like,
tingly and dreamy and free of like fear and concern. Just out, it took like five seconds,
you know, 10 seconds.
Does it always involve the cool action?
Yes. In this case, you know,
no, you can just talk people right into it. Wow. That's amazing.
I mean, my dad came over one time and we were talking about it. I said, you know,
would you like to experience it? And he said, oh, I can't be hypnotized.
And I said, what do you mean? I said, oh, I've been to hypnotists. They couldn't hypnotize me.
So I can hypnotize you. I said, no, you can't. I said, yes, dad, I can.
And four minutes later, he looked like this.
And he was like unconscious. His eyes were rolled back in his head.
Like that was like rigid out. I couldn't wake him up.
It was like he'd been anesthetized, right? It took me a long time to get him to come out of
it once he was in it. And it was scary because I was like, this is my dad. Wait, did I best?
Did I break my dad? Because normally when you bring someone out, they usually come out right away,
unless they're really, really deep in trans. So yeah, I find that to be, you know, there's an
accessible, non-ordinary phenomenon for sure. And it's one that religions, the news media,
other forms of media take various kinds of advantage of. But what's that about?
Why can't you just say a few words to a person and have their whole state change, like instantly?
Yeah, I remember. Yeah, I mean, I've had five or six situations where someone was in physical pain,
and I can just make it go away. I mean, it's not like I'm making it go away. Really, it's them
who's making it go away. But I can place them in a state where like,
they just don't feel the pain anymore. And it doesn't come back. I mean, sometimes it does, you know.
Yeah, I got, I want to look into this now. Yeah, I have very little exposure to hypnosis. So I have
