Hello everybody, welcome.
This is the core inside the blossom of a magnolia tree.
There are many magnolias here.
I think this botanical garden has one of the largest collections of them in the world.
This is a bud that has not yet opened that contains that core, and there don't seem to
be any open flowers at the moment.
Let's take a look around a little bit in case there might be one.
There's a lot of cores, and there's a lot of buds.
Oh, here's one flower.
And you can see how something has collected here that's being dropped from above.
These are trees that are very fragrant flowers.
I think most of their pollinators are nocturnal.
And for some reason that I don't know exactly why, oh here's the shape of the branch.
You can see how the tree is very much, its actual trunk is right here, and see how the
branches, they sort of go very horizontal.
For some reason I don't completely understand.
I've heard that the magnolias like to be near camellias.
And camellias I think are one of the trees that tees come from, particularly one of the
teas I like, which is milk oolong.
I think that comes from a camellia, but I'm not certain.
It's been a while since I made a video.
There's been a lot of turbulence in my life lately.
This is a beautiful Coupressus macrocarpa, a Monterey Cypress.
I'm just going to show you the canopy here.
That's really cool, huh?
Yeah there's been a lot of difficulty in my life, and the lives of many of the people
that I love.
It seems to me that there are multiple situations going on.
And the pandemic is sort of covering over them, even though it seems to be the kind
of the most charismatic of the threats, the sort of the threat that's dancing on the stage
while all around behind the stage there are other threats.
One of the things I find strange is that many people who have not had COVID are suffering
symptoms that resemble those that are associated with what we call long COVID.
And in fact, I have experienced symptoms long, long before the pandemic that resemble those
of long COVID, which makes me very curious.
Because I think there are multiple things going on, and it's very difficult to differentiate
them.
I've spoken before about my sense that anthropologists may have misread ancient people's fear of
eclipses, and maybe even of floods, by not understanding that there is an interior sun.
The eclipse of the sky sun could certainly be terrifying and momentous, but the eclipse
of the inner sun has an unknown duration, and that can destroy civilizations and bring
terror and crisis to the human world.
Yesterday it occurred to me that perhaps along with the seemingly factual nature of
the idea of severe tsunamis and flooding and such like this, which could easily have been
caused by an impact from an extraterrestrial object, a comet, an asteroid, a meteor, or
something else that we don't even know, we may not even have a name for.
See when terrible things happen in our lives, it's very difficult for us humans being sort
of childlike in our hearts and minds sometimes, to not presume that we have done something
wrong, because great misfortune, the sudden emergence of terrible misfortune, surely
awakens in us the capacity to wonder if this is not some kind of retribution, either for
something we have done that is a terrible wrong, or possibly also something we have
not done that was very important to do.
And so I suspect that historically, of course it may well be that there's some kind of an
angry God thing in the universe, or various kinds of God things.
That wouldn't surprise me at all, because the way that consciousness is organized in
sort of tears, like a tree-like form, this is a great tree right here.
And so there's layers, there's levels, there's stations of integration, and those stations
of integration become identities, become beings, become minds, hearts.
So it wouldn't surprise me to discover that in fact, there were something like gods.
And there's all kinds of different things they might be, ordinarily when we wonder well
what does this term refer to, what is meant, if we read this term, or if we interpret a
reading of this term from ancient peoples, or records, or inscriptions, statues, and so
on, what is meant.
And part of the problem with trying to pursue this is that there's a bias in us, moderns,
and perhaps it's natural to any people in any time, to suspect that ancient peoples
lived and thought and had the same kinds of experiences we have.
This may well not be true.
This could be surprisingly untrue, I mean the degree of untruth could be very surprising.
And it's not actually reasonable to presume, to assume, though it's okay to suppose, that
in the past, everything was as it is now, minds were just like our minds, hearts were
just like our hearts.
That stellar chase is trying to store the peanut in its craw, and this raven is a little
more skeptical.
I do not presume, though I may sometimes suppose, but I do not presume, that a human being a
thousand years ago, or 8,000 years ago, or 20,000, 50,000, 100,000 years ago, had the
same kind, the same essential kind of experience in mind that I have, because I know I've had
experiences of mind that are nothing like what moderns would understand or expect.
In fact, some of these experiences were so shocking, that they might actually kill a
modern human being, just if they had a few moments of this experience, they might die.
And so I don't suppose that the minds of human beings, or the experiences of human beings
throughout history were the same as they are today, or even closely resembled, or however
you want to say it.
But I know, from everything I have learned and come to understand, both through my experience
and my reading and research, that there were terrible catastrophes for ancient peoples,
and some of them were certainly non-ordinary.
I believe that the array of problems we presently find ourselves enmeshed in on a planetary scale
are not entirely ordinary by any stretch of the imagination, there's profound non-ordinary
aspects to them that are inexplicable, that cannot be encompassed or explained by rational
descriptions, models, theories, etc.
Excuse me for a moment.
Water.
A long time ago, my friend Mark brought his son to my house, his son was seven.
I asked his son, you know, if you had a free wish, and you could wish for anything, what
would you wish for?
Of course, Mark's ancestors and his son's ancestors come from Africa, and I think his
son is actually in Africa right now, which I find kind of a frightening idea.
But I asked his son, you know, if you could have anything you wanted, what would you wish
for? and he said something very surprising.
He said, I would wish for water, because water will keep you alive.
It's very uncommon to hear a small child, well he was not that small, I mean he was
seven, but to hear a child say something that deep and profound and wise, and unencumbered
by confused ephemera.
In space, time, liquid water appears to be extremely rare, and this planet is rife with
it, it's everywhere here.
And that makes this place an extremely rare paradise that can support such astonishing
forms of life as these, and these, and these, these, lavender.
Some kind of artemisia that looks sage-like, more lavender, more artemisias, grasses.
This world, from what I have, from the intimations I have gleaned, this is a rare and paradisical
world in time-space, and there are few like it.
Of course, what we mean by few depends on the sample size, if you sample a billion worlds
and you find five like this, that's rare.
If you sample a trillion worlds, and you find two like this, it's even more rare.
So, if you sample a billion worlds, and you find five like this, it's even more rare.
So, if you sample a billion worlds, and you find five like this, it's even more rare.
About 66 geese, and a few young ravens.
White-cheeked people.
Powerful and intelligent animals.
So there were disasters historically, and also ecstasies, like I'm not sure what the
opposite of a disaster is, but opportunities, and sudden ascension moments in the history
of life on earth and of our own species, that are very mysterious and do not necessarily
match our ideas of them at all, when we think of an eclipse, wow, that's a sight.
That's beautiful.
There are apparently thousands of tablets from Babylon talking apparently about the
disappearance of the gods, and now demons are everywhere.
And of course, for us moderns, I don't think we understand what is meant by these two words.
These and demons.
And many people would presume that these are just, you know, kind of superstitious or religious
ideas and terms.
I very much doubt it.
I very much doubt it.
There are states of mind in which the divine beings are so tangible, so present to consciousness,
that our own consciousness cannot exist without them.
And they are not thoughts or ideas any more than your neighbor is a thought.
Any more than the sound of my voice is a thought, or the image of my face.
No, long ago, things were probably extremely different from what we experience today.
And in fact, what I'd like you to imagine is a world populated with non-ordinary beings.
To the same degree, our world has become populated with objects, machines, and artificial processes.
You see the cars everywhere.
You see the phones and the houses and all these things, they are everywhere.
Long ago before that was true, other forms held those positions in the relational web
of beings.
And for most of us moderns, these are matters either of great mystery or of ideology, right?
Like, we are inclined to think that religion is essentially a form of superstition, a narrative
thing.
And that's not precise, it's not very confusing that we have this problem because very few
of us have had any experience of anything other than narratives about non-ordinary reality.
And actually what I mean by non-ordinary reality is something kind of paradoxical or conflicted
because I mean ordinary reality stripped of the blinding ideas, concepts, experiences,
contexts, the deprivice of the experience that I point out when I use this term non-ordinary.
In every living place, there are both, there are two kinds of things, there are the spirits
of these beings, the souls of these beings, these trees, these grasses, these birds, I
think these are linden trees, oh that one is starting to bloom.
But there are also spirits of place and the language is touchy, right, because if I use
this word spirit or something like this or if I say the soul, people are going to get
ideas but what I mean are beings that don't have bodies but are there, you can contact
them, they will communicate with you, under the right conditions they will teach you,
guide you, harm you, fight you, redirect you and it's not imaginary anymore than any of
our existences imaginary but what I mean by imaginary is it's not an invention of thought,
it's actually here, it's just that we've been so deprived of our array of senses that we
ordinarily do not sense them and so when I say non-ordinary what I mean is what we would sense
if our, if our actually ordinary senses, the full array of them were available to us, we would have
a staggering experience of something that doesn't resemble anything like our ideas about nearly
anything, even the exotic ideas don't, they can't hold a candle to what's actually going on, this
is in part because ideas are derivations and what's going on is not a derivation.
Now I can't always feel or see the beings and the degree to which the aperture of my
sensing opens has, you know, is determinative of what I may be able to sense, contact, become aware
of, communicate with and so on. Most of the time I'm much like any other person, any random
person on the street, I don't feel the world, I don't feel the, I don't feel the non-ordinary
layer or I feel it only very slightly. There are various things I can do to change that,
one of them is focus my attention on one thing like one tree, one animal, one aspect of the living
place, slow down, stop thinking, come into my body, release my, the sort of flotilla of thoughts,
ideas and concepts that ordinarily occlude the world of participation in relation, in nature.
Because you see part of the problem is that an aspect of our bicameral minds and they're
probably not merely bicameral but this associated with the left hemisphere is the idea of grasping
and parts and cutting things into pieces, distinguishing and so on and that that English is
the same kind of sound that comes from extinguish, right, to put out, to put an end to. Distinguishing
puts an end to the senses that depend on unity, right, and the left hemisphere's preference is
very knife-like, it wants to cut things into parts and manipulate those parts, it's very grasping
oriented and once the left hemisphere's faculties grasp the knife of distinguishing, the mind turns
into a knife and it cuts things and it reifies the parts that it, that it thusly distinguishes and
we become trapped in this really dangerous process which is also useful, unfortunately, it's so
dominant that its usefulness is easily overcome by the perils that emerge from its inactions.
So I usually don't sense in a deep way the spirits of place that I know are there from previous
experience when I could and some of those experiences were so rich and deep that they pretty
much obliterated everything I had thought about what's going on, everything, what a tree is,
what it means to be alive, what the sun is, what time is, what light is, all of these things were
destroyed and remade during some of the experiences that I've had and these experiences were not,
did not involve the use of psychedelic drugs or other drugs, they involved contact with
something that certainly could qualify as a God or perhaps a demon or perhaps an angel or possibly
a collective of intelligences of some kind that appear via a sort of, hmm, it's the right word,
an intermediary form, something like this, it's beautiful here, that water in the sky is life,
have water, I mean our eyes, right, they have water, our mouths water, we are, we are water animals,
water beings. Now I don't, I didn't begin this afternoon with any particular goal and I've
wandered around a few various topics but the thing that came out and that I have been concerned
about and have been thinking about writing about but haven't taken hand to keypad over yet,
there's a layered array of disasters happening for the humans all over the planet right now and I
believe that that cascade will gain momentum and will breed new and diverse forms over the coming
few decades, some of those will happen very quickly, others will take longer to happen.
Unfortunately in the moment of our trial we may find ourselves bereft of the intelligences and
sensitivities most crucial to navigating such terrain for a wide variety of reasons but for
