terrain is fascinating or compelling for some reason.
And pretty easy to see why it's compelling.
We would not be here if that weren't happening.
Our parents would not have generated us.
The branch of the tree of knowledge we call religion is very peculiar.
And poses itself in a very strange way,
a way that resembles the pose of science and the pose of mathematics
or the poses of science and mathematics.
It poses itself
as the super topic.
Doesn't matter what the ways of knowing are.
Obey God. It's all taken care of. Obey the scripture. Obey the rules.
Obey the principles. Obey the language. Obey the songs.
And it doesn't, there's no way of knowing that means anything
in comparison to this, not science, not math, not religion,
outside of ours, not philosophy, not nothing.
From, you know, some perspectives on the topic, not all of them.
It poses as a super topic.
And science has inherited that pose.
Even though the word science doesn't actually, it's not actually connected to...
Pardon me, ma'am. It's okay.
In fact, the word science is very confusing when left undefined.
Let's see what I can make of it.
The branches of the tree of human knowledge
that pose themselves on
as reliable and dependable in a way other branches are not,
based on their relationship with what we call data or information.
Based on what we would think of as empirical standards of truth testing.
All right, so you can't, in science, for example, we imagine anyway,
that you can't get away with making shit up.
Because your data, anyone can mine that data themselves.
And anyone or any group of humans can use the data
to support or to attack what we call hypo-theses.
Now, let's be really clear about what hypo means.
Because the position of both religious thought and science
is that of a hyper-thesis.
A thesis that encompasses all possible theses.
So when we say the word science,
we're referring to a way of knowing that poses as a hyper-thesis.
Hypo means less than.
Hyper means inflated, inflamed, bigger than too much.
Testing, okay, took a little break there.
In western, in modern western thought, apparently, at least according to Owen Barfield,
who I think probably knows something about what he was writing about.
He talks about a problem that arose around the time of Galileo, where previously
hypo-theses, lesser theses,
were understood to be perspectival prostheses valued not primarily
for their truthful depiction of situations, transformations, identities, qualities,
sequences, and so forth, but rather for the insight one could gain by entertaining them
in consciousness. What Galileo did was to collapse that and begin, in a sense,
the reign of scientific authority,
resulting from a hypothesis which, at least superficially, appeared equivalent to the facts,
captures and displays the facts. It was this feature of Galileo's
work that troubled the church, and it troubled the church because it was an assault
on their hyper-theory, and not just their hyper-theory, but their self-authorization,
and their auto-authority, autocratic authority, over
not merely the facts, but what?
What is the authoritative perspective and the protective concern with the conservation
of authorization in human, in systems of human thought, in social systems,
in political systems, in military systems, right? All of these authorizations are
held beneath the flag of the Catholic Church
and other churches in other places.
So it appears that it was this that aroused the ire
and surveillance and damnation that descended on Galileo, not that, not so much, which is what
we usually hear, that the idea that the planets orbit each other or orbit the sun, I meant,
not that idea. That idea was perhaps modestly radical in its assertion at that time,
but had been asserted long before that by people like Copernicus and others,
vastly predating Galileo and probably radically predating Copernicus.
So the problem is here that the church could prophetically see, in a sense, a future in which
the hyper-thesis would be transferred from religion to this new thing, this sort of new thing,
new version of an old thing called science.
Now, if you go to, if you go to the remnants of older indigenous traditions,
ancient, perhaps ancient indigenous traditions, you'll find that they have something that vaguely
resembles science in some aspects of its inaction, embodiment, history, tradition, and so forth.
And there are different kinds of resemblance. There's a resemblance in which
something kind of like empirical observation ensues.
But there's sciences, there's also another aspect which is more or less relational and
participatory, and this aspect becomes often alive and transmitted generation to generation
in what we in the West refer to as ceremony and or ritual. I assure you that whatever the heck
the indigenous people were actually doing prior to their encounters with the strangely abstract
representational nonsense and also projection of hyper-theoretical authority, whatever they were
doing before all of that, our language is poorly English, very poorly
endowed to describe or reveal that to us. I don't trust these words ceremony or ritual to
encompass what they, what they may claim, what some may claim they refer to in indigenous cultures,
but they also had hyper-theories.
And perhaps the word in English that closest, that comes closest or is at least starts out somewhat
close to descriptive capacity is tradition. But even this word means something very different
in English, I think. The word religion fails, the word tradition fails, the word ceremony
perhaps a little closer in some ways, but fails, the word ritual, you know, close in some ways,
but fails. The phrase way of life gets closer
or way of relation in way of staying in relation with relation
closer.
I think Barfield in his book, Saving the Appearances, which I recommend you all read.
Every one of you should read this book. You should read it six times or read it and memorize the damn thing.
He might call it participation.
Now what I was thinking of earlier, because I style myself under the rubric cognitive
activist in some branches of my strange little brain or mind, what I was thinking of earlier
were topics that were meta or
progenerative of other topics, right? There are topics inside human cognition
underneath the tree of knowledge before the branches that are very profound.
It's reasonably clear that other organisms
have, not have, experience something resembling self-awareness.
This doesn't mean that there are two of them like there are in humans
as evinced by the letter W in our alphabet, right, which begins six of the seven question words,
primary question words.
As if we have to make a duplicate of ourselves and only then
can we begin resolving the strange problem produced by that first move
as evinced in questions such as which came first, the chicken or the egg, or what is the sound of
one hand clapping and so forth. This cognitive doubling, this capacity to imagine
that there are two of me, one of which has a question and another of which
poses responses to it and so forth.
Very, very peculiar problem. But when I began this recording,
it's actually true that I cannot remember the original motivation.
And it almost doesn't matter because that original motivation was like the first stage of a rocket.
It gets altitude and then it no longer is important, it contributes.
And we think, we tend to think, and it's not unreasonable to think,
that a higher position gives you better, you know, a new perspective. There are stories
of indigenous populations in Africa, for example, that lived in a valley. I remember a story about
an indigenous population who lived in a valley. And when white people, you know, colonizing European
people, showed up there, they asked the man, you know, are you aware that you live in a valley?
They didn't know what a valley was. And when they were taken up the sides of mountains they'd long
been familiar with, which I think, you know, had been associated with the gods and death and so
forth, but then abjectly terrified of what they saw from up there.
And did not venture for quite some time to refuse to venture out of the valley.
Well, this is an anecdotal story. I suspect that I'm remembering it
from, I mean, I suspect that the source is likely to be Edmund Carpenter, a brilliant anthropologist.
Working primarily, I think, in the 50s, 60s and 70s. And by the way, if you can get a hold of any of
Edmund's stuff in writing, by all means, do so.
Books such as They Became, What They Beheld.
Can I remember any of his other titles?
I don't even know what to say, actually. There is a family walking here
that is very unusual and profound, but I can't really think of a reasonable way to characterize
what renders them thus. I'm stumped.
The father is leading the charge. He has a black velvet coat and a hat such as a
practitioner of Osh, no, a practitioner of
certain spiritual arts from Africa might wear.
Ah, okay. So,
religion poses as a hyper-topic. Notice that philosophy poses as a hyper-topic because
philosophy examines how we think about, evaluate, value, or dismiss ways of knowing ideas, thoughts,
all these things.
So, there are branches on the tree that lead to hyper-topics both
sort of down the tree, sort of thinking not necessarily outside or inside the box,
thinking about how boxes arise in the first place.
And then above the tree, they give us a superposition over all the branches.
And science as a way of knowing has inherited or appropriated, in a way,
the authorizations that might ordinarily and had certainly previously in relatively modern history
belonged to religion. Of course, in many cultures, there were things like kings, queens, and chiefs,
though the latter word is different than the first two.
There's a difference between, for example,
being seen as the incarnate soul of a people, a village, a tribe.
There is a difference between that and the idea of one who dictates to others.
And long associated with kings and queens is this
principle of measurement, which turns out to be bizarrely important in physics and science
and math. Notice that over time, the science developed the concept of accurate measurement
was transferred from religious or monarchic authorities
to a putative or nominal discipline called science.
Now in modernity, in our experiences moderns,
the word science has many, many senses.
On hearing the rhythmic
linguistic
of a rap artist such as Aesop Rocks, one might declare this man is putting down some science.
And strangely, the way that idea gets
into popular
exchange relates to the authorization to speak about hypertopics. I was listening to
a song last yesterday evening that was sort of rap-ish metal.
I wonder if I could remember any parts of it.
It was paraprophetic about apocalypses.
Title waves were spreading from the US to the UK. This was all rendered in
rap, you know, syllabilisms.
It was fabulous. It was really,
there was an image of Poseidon riding waves trident in hand. There were all these profoundly
evocative sequences of words and fricative
cascades, right? Cascades of sharp
endings of words, each one somehow producing like an exhortative enthusiasm.
It's funny, I'm not able to remember the lyrics. It's a song I've only heard a few times,
though I really like it. I've listened to very little rap, I mostly find it offensive
to my musical sensibilities and my poetic sensibilities.
Though there are exceptions.
For a long time now, the thoroughfare I'm walking on has been closed to vehicular
traffic reclaimed by pedestrians, which I think is wonderful.
It's a major
thoroughfare in Golden Gate Park.
And obviously if I had my way, all roads would be closed to traffic.
Or there would be very few roads
on which traffic was common, which I guess people would say,
well no one would be able to get anywhere. Yeah, we'd probably be better off
at this point in history for sure.
Hypertopics. So it turns out that there was a fascination with hypertopics long ago.
Clearly Socrates, in his concerns with
Mayutics, the midwifery of insight and an amnesis, and also his concerns with philosophy and
not just dialectics, but there's another word that means a mutual conversational inquiry.
The gods and their nature were hypertopics, and I think for saying something that resembles
even the gods are not free to dictate the true and the untrue. They are subject to
they cannot change truth, and this is what was selected to charge him with impiety.
For which he was executed, though they did offer him the option of amputating
his most precious relationships and suffering exile rather than death.
There are features of mathematics
that surely comprise hypertopics, and the entire subject of geometry is one of them.
Plato was aware of this. There were religions that arose or rather conspiratorial societies that
arose that orbited the enlightened study of geometry, and what I mean by enlightened is
