Hello, everybody. Hello to you personally, because it's very unlikely, given the size
of the modest size of my audience, that any two people would be listening to the recording
such that the timing of the recording would match for each of them in their time-space
location. It is possible, and it's probably a bit more likely than I imagine. So, hello,
listener. Hello to you. Where you are while you're listening. Welcome. It's a gusty Sunday
afternoon here in the city named after Francis of Assisi, I suspect, who was well known as a friend
and companion to the organisms, the animals, the plants, probably the insects. I always find it
strange when a person professes biophilia, the adoration of living beings, or of organismal
living beings, but somehow excludes the insects, who are in a way staggeringly older than most
animal species. If we look at time as a function of population and the generational iterative
pulse, if I ask questions about the number of generations of turtles, first of all,
these questions are going to be foundationally unanswerable. What we're going to get are
approximations based on data, and there's lots of data we don't have as a species, or
even that it's not possible by any ordinary empirical means to produce to get. So, I ask
questions about, for example, generations of elephants, relatively long-lived species,
not entirely dissimilar to humans in terms of their longevity, and I'm not sure what their
generative cycles are like. In other words, for example, given a group of 100 elephants,
how many new elephants per year do you get, and so forth. There's also a problem where
that I don't think there's a mathematical solution for, although there are functional
solutions, there's a problem where, obviously, if you go back in time for population dynamics,
the number of progenitors appears to exponentially, I think, I think it's exponentially, I could be
wrong about that, grow larger, so that it looks like one, you know, and the number of
ancestors of a currently extant organism become infinite as you go backwards. There's some
technique by which we reduce that number. I cannot recall it at the moment. It has to do with
an analysis. So, one thing it has to do with is subtracting ancestors for multiple children,
I think, but I'm not an expert on this. The problem has long bothered me because in trying to
determine, in trying to get a hold of a number that resembles something like biological time,
since each distinct organism is a unique participant in the temporal manifold, undergoing
locally unique changes, generating unique ancestors, affecting other creatures and
situations uniquely, and also being affected this way. It turns out that biological time is very
strange stuff. One could understand it as a form of compression or exponentiation. My point, though,
before I get to bird walkie here early in the conversation is that the number of fruit flies
that have existed, for example, must catastrophically dwarf the number of elephants that have existed.
So, if, in order to understand biorelational time, we count the number of fruit flies per minute,
per second, per year, in which fruit fly time, quote unquote, is passing. The mode of time that fruit
flies biorelationally comprise, the mode of time that elephants comprise, we discover that the fruit
flies are, in fact, vastly older than the flat age of the universe. Vastly, like probably many factors
of the age. And if we're concerned with something resembling evolutionary change or the development
and mutation of genome sets, this is the kind of time we need to be thinking about. Of course,
humans often have pretty much the dumbest reasons for considering these matters.
Hey, that's what.
So, the insects are ancient, ancient, ancient, beyond imagining, especially as
if we, you know, clade them up and say, like, well, we're going to talk about all the insects,
all the different forms of them, including the stuff we don't usually think, you know,
taxonomically, we might think of as different, for example, centipedes, scorpions, spiders.
These are not true insects, quote unquote, according to our taxonomies.
But we would collect those all together. I promise you, the age is probably
billions of trillions of life years in those creatures, so ignoring them.
And also, without them, there are no animals, right? So you have a direct link to origin
in relationships that are really important. It's funny. Oh, yeah, the ways of knowing.
And what was I thinking about? It's weird.
My mind has traveled since I began this recording in such a fashion that for the moment,
I cannot locate the thread that it was my intention. Okay, wait, now I see. Oh, yeah.
Okay, so now I think I have recovered the original thread.
So the humans have what we might call ways of knowing.
And these are specific branches on the tree of knowledge. And I'm not necessarily speaking of the
one referenced in Genesis, though at the same time, perhaps I am a bit.
And lots of these ways are abstract. Some of them are not particularly abstract.
For example, biology, pretty abstract.
History, very abstract.
The broad array of science is mostly abstract.
Philosophy, psychology, social studies, mathematics,
mechanics. These are branches on the tree.
Presuming that there's a single tree we're talking about.
But then you have things like dance, traditional knowledge, ceremony, ritual, religion.
These are also ways of knowing.
And then things get a little stranger because there are orders on the tree.
So for example, there is the order of representational cognition,
which will include nearly all of most of the branches.
Let me just check a couple things here.
That seems to be working.
So some of these topics, particularly philosophy and psychology,
and to some degree biology, though we might find out that many of the branches intersect
beyond their superficial layer, like beneath their superficial layer, they intersect.
At the superficial layer, they're highly representational, which means they're conceptual
and linguistic and taxonomic and abstract and model, fraught. They're filled with models.
Beneath that something stranger and more interesting starts to happen.
So for example, obviously, psychology, for example,
gives us models and perspectives on our interiority. And what we might refer to as the psyche,
which is obviously the first part of the name of the discipline. Similarly, psychiatry.
These start to explore the confusing and often nonsensical,
in other words, certainly not merely rational aspects of our interiority.
It's not clear to me what animals and insects experience, though I do believe it's possible
to directly share in that experience. It's certainly possible to relationally share that
experience. But by directly, I mean the employment of a faculty in human beings
that allows us to participate in the interiority of other beings, not merely model it.
We know that humans can have theory of mind and things like this. Talking about something much
different, a faculty science would, a modern science would almost unanimously disavow.
A faculty which theory of mind is probably the remnant of.
In terms of understanding human interiority, modern science perhaps has a grasp on one to
7% of the terrain at best. We're talking about an array of layered infinities
similar to the universe. And the lens with which you approach it will radically delimit what you
can see or understand or become aware of. And humans, moderns particularly,
especially at the clade level or cohort level where science is done, they tend to use singular
lenses, which is ridiculous, like a primary or singular purpose of orientation.
And that purpose of orientation is often deconstructive, tears things apart.
Humans are weird. They often do things that are completely inexplicable.
Deconstructive and utilitarian. What's the function?
And then also extractive. What can we get, do, own, dominate,
given some understanding of something we're observing?
These perspectives mostly make us dumber. Continue over time to evict us from relation
and participation with life and its origins and produce monumental libraries and abstract
knowledge mechanism and the results of the inaction of those things, which are
generally omnicidal. They obliterate life and its bases.
And they're omnicidal precisely because they're disembodied and disembodying.
So at the superficial layer of the tree of human knowledge, you have these
abstract forms that I enumerated previously. And then underneath them you start to get stuff
that deals with
you start to get stuff that's fairly met that at least might be metacognitive.
It can examine cognition, linguistics, psycholinguistics,
traditions of meditation,
that begin to produce lenses
that might allow us to see more deeply into the structured habits we are most often
kind of entrapped in, in a way that
resembles how trains follow tracks.
Do you think there's a danger with that? It's difficult
for us.
Unless we are granted an experience of liberation from the templates we tend to follow
in thought, relation, and behavior.
Even if we are given some liberation, right? For example,
there's something unusual about the onset
of romantic thoughts, feelings, and experiences.
There's a feeling often described as being on top of the world
as if some kind of dominant position is powerful.
I've never heard someone say
I was so excited I felt beneath the world.
Like I was holding the world up.
On top of implies
liberation
from
subjugation to be subject to the world.
Psychologists and people like
his name escapes me.
It's where we get the
the idea of the hero's journey from
modernly.
Perhaps his name will arise in my mind.
Many of these people will tell us that
such ecstatic
and perhaps limer and sladen
emotions
are the result of evolutionary processes, the necessity of reproduction, physical
reproduction, and so forth.
The man I was thinking of
sometimes it's you know we imagine that it's only good to successfully remember.
It's not good to not remember.
But not being able to remember actually conveys other possibilities.
It creates a different array of potentials in consciousness.
And this is part of what I mean by metacognition.
I remember him saying on stage one night
in a lecture about the hero's journey
he sort of poo-pooed the whole romantic
situation claiming that once you see into its structure and function
you'll retreat from that naturally retreat.
High into what?
I guess more or less platonic relationships.
And I can understand the perspective.
I can see I can see all the trouble of romance.
But I don't think it's nearly the flush of neurotransmitters
and the transition of them doubt it.
That's probably involved.
I'm not saying that's not going on.
But it isn't just that that's going on.
And my point was that
in the early days of romantic
excitement, enthusiasm,
there's a feeling of freedom often.
An empowerment of liberation.
Of together we will rise above all obstacles.
We will carry each other to the sky.
We will all of these things.
And I don't think those feelings are merely constructs
or merely the result of chemical changes and so forth.
I don't think so.
Closely linked with them perhaps.
Correlated with, yes.
Causal, not sure.
I think something else is also going on.
It's a kind of reunion where the two lineages of those lovers
are getting together in a superposition
above the singular identity of the lovers.
And they're having a kind of a grand reunion.
They're having something like a relational orgasm.
You know, vast lineages of animal progenitors,
insect progenitors, living place progenitors,
human progenitors, non corporeal progenitors.
They are recognizing one another through the localization
of the individual humans that are falling in love
or have become overwhelmed by adoration, mutual adoration.
Very complex situation going on there.
Certainly not limited to neurotransmitters
and the ephemeral joy of rubbing flowers together.
Now, of course, people who are more,
like less relationship oriented and more sex oriented,
there's still a backdrop of those meta,
meta to our theories features.
It turns out that the nature of human love relationships
is itself a meta topic with many, you know, complex branches
that we could explore. We can explore. They're available.
We have access to them should we decide that that
