we need to interact in a way to interact with human culture and knowledge in a way that doesn't
just continually keep depriving us, starving us inside for a return to our natural intelligence
and curiosity and playfulness and awe, wonder, reverence, words I, words I adore.
And this results in pain and it results in addiction and it results in crime, poverty,
suicide, loss. It results in rape. And in fact what happens to the child in most families,
there are exceptions, is that the child's a sort of glowing star of intelligence and hunger for
deep relation that comes to earth in the form of the human child. It's the energies that fund it,
right, that fund that intrinsic brightness, are shunted away from it into representational thought,
language, conceptual thought, rules, laws, politics, technology, relations with devices,
and so on. Now in case you, of course there are many exceptions and each of us
embodies unique exceptions, right, things we've managed to preserve through the catastrophic
crisis of our childhood experience of inculturation and in languaging and imprinting.
And not all of that is bad and in fact it doesn't have to be bad at all.
It's a problem of precedence, right, the formal representational assets quickly acquire precedence
and they overwhelm, inhibit, and actively threaten many of the faculties and intelligences and there
are myriads of these that are natural to our human form. And this proceeds over time so we end up
falling off a cliff that gets steeper every time we drop a level and we fall faster and there's more
damage taken. But the originary intelligences and faculties that are our human inheritance
are always present in us even if they are severely buried or inhibited and many of our reactive
proclivities are actually symptomatic expressions of the pain of this loss and inhibition.
Our modern cultures have the capacity to embrace our human interiority,
to nourish and protect the incredible gifts that are our inheritance, but they don't.
And even where they do, it tends to be in highly structured forms. Now some of us are able to achieve
something like escape velocity from the gravity of our representational and technological cultures
so that we can exist within them and continue to develop our interiority and our relationship
with the invisibles within and around and without us. But for the vast majority of people
we will be trapped in various ways either by poverty and there's lots of different kinds.
It was very uncommon for me to encounter a truly intelligent adult as a child
and those were magical moments when that happened. That should not be so.
And the peculiar forms of intelligence that the teachers tend to convey to the children
are too oriented toward producing a form that fits in modern society
rather than a form that fits with the unique gifts, inhibitions, and potentials of each human being.
I was reading a book by Philip Regal that I like a lot called The Anatomy of Judgment.
I strongly recommend it. And in the book he was talking with a colleague
about the possibility of teaching people how to become who they are inside, how to fulfill their
unique nature as a human being, as an animal, as an organism, as a being. And his colleague who was
in child development basically said, you know, this is a non-topic in academia. Whenever I've
brought it up, people quickly dismissed it as too fuzzy. There's no funding. You can't publish.
And the author said, well, don't you think that adults would be interested in having their children
learn how to become and fulfill the uniqueness that they bring to their, you know, incarnation?
And his colleague said, no, quite the opposite. What the adults are mostly worried about is
causing their children to fit in to the modern milieu and get jobs and work and be able to buy
homes and, you know, be successful in material and monetary terms. And very few, but not none,
of the parents care much about the development of the unique children they give birth to.
Now, when I speak of these things, I'm talking about generalities and norms,
and it's important to realize there are all kinds of exceptions.
There are parents and what I'll call aloe parents
who are brilliant at nurturing the uniqueness and individuality of their children,
while still often anyway, managing to properly equip them for relating with
culture and society and money and pragmatics.
And by aloe parents, I mean adopted parents, right? Children, young people, middle, you know,
teenagers, young adults, middle-aged people, even old people.
We often form bonds that are filial, familial, with others who are not from our family.
I have a number of relationships that are very dear to my heart in which,
although we are friends, I also play the role of aloe parent or companion, older companion, right,
elder. And humans are really good at forming aloe families, and this is one way to think
of what a tribe is. A tribe is an aloe family, a super family of families.
But an aloe family can be any collection of people and we can form them even spontaneously.
We can form them just for a short time and then they dissolve again, or we can form them in such a
way that they deepen and continue over time.
And when I began my talk, I was thinking about knowledge, language, and identity.
How do we know what something is? Well, most of us know by referring to the
length to a linguistic tree and we find a category, and then we leap from the everything
to the some things of the categories to a specific thing. Oh, this is a cypress tree.
But it's really important to pay attention to the fact or the principle
that we start at everything and then we collapse that down to a category. Now,
everything is full of mystery, right? It's very hard to know something about everything.
What shall we say about everything? It's too broad. And everything or the universe or all that is,
or all that is and has been and will be, that is a very special category that I call the super
container. It's one of the deepest root elements of representational thought.
So, for example, if we associate equality with everything, so if we say, for example,
the universe is a being or is more than a being, then every subcategory inherits that quality,
right? And if we say the universe is not a being and is just material, then everything again inherits
that quality. Whatever qualities we associate or don't associate with the super container
are inherited by all subcontainers.
And we have traditions of knowledge which the child's intelligence is capable of unifying.
In fact, at first it won't understand why they're distinct at all. And this would be quite an
experience for an adult to have even a moment in which the different ways of knowing were unified
in an experience of aware intelligence that is unlike anything we will ordinarily encounter
in life. But we may encounter something resembling it in either moments of crisis,
ecstasy, birth and death. In these experiences, the veneer of representational thought is often
ripped away. And once it's torn that way,
the nature of the invisibles emerges in us in a visionary efflorescence of often
wonderful and terrifying import. Terrifying primarily because we are unfamiliar with it.
Wonderful because it contains dimensions of feeling and experience in relation that we
were ordinarily deprived of by our representational habits.
So knowing what something is
is a weird gambit.
If why we want to know is simply so that we can then sort of ignore the thing we've named
and move on to the next, move on to the next thing, then we're in real trouble
because our capacities for understanding will be catastrophically limited.
And it's the same kind of game that you see in other forms in our modern society where
where the anatomy of what might be deep relationships is often exchanged
for the skeletal remains of tokens, commodities, transactions. Now, of course, in our mind,
when I wonder about the tree, we could call that a transaction, but I wouldn't, probably.
There are so many different ways of knowing about a tree. The representational one is the least
interesting but has some pragmatic value in our, you know, in our common activity as
modern people in modern societies.
The sun is setting in the orange light.
There is no word I know for this,
but I feel the spirit of the hue in the light.
I feel the spirit of the departure of the day.
And that's an invisible thing.
Ordinary language will not convey it, but poetry might evoke in us
deep feelings
of memory and relation and meaning without description.
There is no meaning of the flavor of food unless we're analyzing it.
The meaning of intimacies that we have with our own bodies, with the living world,
with each other, when we're lucky, with nature. These meanings are invisibles.
There are interior movements and transformations and effulgences and disappearances.
So generally, the models of identity that we're imprinted with are broken.
It would be like if I wanted to show you what a human is, but I only showed you the pinky.
And nothing else.
From just seeing a pinky, you wouldn't imagine a hand or a wrist or an arm or a torso or eyes
or ears or minds. And this is how it is with us in language. Language is a thin veneer.
It's a kind of game we play around identity.
And to know what a tree is, we're going to need something vastly deeper, but anything that science
or philosophy or religion or even poetry can bring us. So we need to be able to,
without getting rid of our representational intelligence, we need to be able to set it
aside so that it's not shunting away all of the energies of our interiority into very superficial
structures and forms, purposes, agendas. What we might call traditions except they're
peculiarly not like the kinds of traditions in which we might place trust.
Language is like a phony foot. And we think we're walking toward knowledge when we're
using language. And it's not that we can't, but rather that if we're unaware of the ocean,
the fact that we're exploring an island may confuse us and get us off on the wrong,
going in the wrong direction. And representational intelligence is like a structured island
most of the time. Now, of course, it's possible to play in the terrain of representational
intelligence and preserve the aspects and assets that underlie its possibility
so that we can have actual experience of them while awake and while we're thinking and dreaming
and creating and wondering and speculating. But I'm extremely suspicious of the urge for
representational mastery in human traditions and in the modern milieu of consciousness.
I'm suspicious because I've seen through that veil long ago and that vision was absolutely
fascinating and still mysterious to me. It didn't solve all my problems, but it helped
me understand how our societies and how individual minds can become so misguided
as to attack their own origins or even themselves.
And this is a common problem because representational thought
is prone to hide, inhibit, replace, and counterfeit the faculties and
intelligences from which it emerges as a tiny, tiny subset. And it wants to do away with all
of that. And the best way to do that is to kill everything. And you want to hide the killing
so that it's not in your face and humans are really good at this. But something like that,
the environmental atrocity that we see all around us, has been happening inside us in our hearts and
minds throughout the development of our lives. And so there's a similar
sort of extinction event going on inside us, right alongside the extinction of the living
places and the oceans and the atmosphere and the animals and the insects. And that shouldn't
be surprising because fundamentally around here, the world is one being first, separate beings
only if we make that distinction on purpose. And if we make that distinction in order to
destroy them, well, we're destroying ourselves. And this is true of individuals as well as groups.
So our knowledge of identity, deep knowledge of identity depends not so much on language
and models, though those can be helpful if they don't overcome the essence. It depends on intimacy
and intimacy is purposive in the sense that though it may be entirely natural for me to
cleave to the beauty of this tree and to be moved very deeply by the fact that we exist
together right now in matter, in time space. That may be entirely natural, but there's a
purposive aspect that underlies that for me and it's, it's, it's an amnesis. It's
the undoing of forgetting. It's remembrance. It's the longing for the unities and forms of
intelligence that my body and mind are children of. I want to recover my original family and I
want to know them and to love them, to please them. I want them to be proud of me in the sense of
realizing that I am a good child of the universe, of the sun, of the moon, of the world, of the
plants, of the animals, and I am a good friend and I am a good companion. Now this is personal to me
and not everyone shares the same intense passion that I have in this way, but many of us do.
And in childhood, much more of us do. We come to human birth filled with awe and wonder and potential,
but the human world really unnecessarily gets in the way of that and tries to replace it
with tokens and transactions and so on. And some of this may be due to our peculiar
evolutionary history, but also to our bilateral cortex. It seems these cortexes on the surface of
our brains have very different ways of being in the world from what we presently understand,
however primitive our current understanding may be. And of course the hemisphere has always worked
together and it's not like either one is the cause or source of some particular way of being and yet
there's a proclivity in the left hemisphere which is associated with the right hand
to want to reduce things that are mysterious or uncontrollable to structures that it can
manipulate confidently. And that's part of why our interiority gets lost in language and culture
and you can see if you just look at a city, right, living place was made into a bunch of
boxes and roads for machines. Well it's not entirely dead, but most of the assets that would
be natural for a living place to have disappear. And what's left is a terribly impoverished
and strangely specialized subset of those organisms that can survive when the context
collapses towards structure. And our own minds and hearts are like this so that as we get older
it's those aspects that are most resilient in the face of the collapse into structure and tokens
and transactions that survive in us. And it can be very difficult for them to survive and for
most of the humans I know they really struggle with trying to live in the remains of our interiority
that we can still have some relation with or discover or renew in the highly layered structured
fictions of our of our society. But the minds we bring to human birth as I was saying earlier
are like the geologic strata of many ages of terrestrial existence, right, the existence of
the world. And the minds that we arrive with when we're born contain profound stratifications
of historical development, all of which we are pretty much unaware of.
Unless those assets are nurtured, activated, rewarded, unless there's a context that calls them
forth, because much of our interiority over time we learn to inhibit it so that we won't scare the
natives so to speak. We won't scare the other moderants around us and so that we won't be deprived
of social, vocational, or relational opportunities because we stand out as different, because we
resisted normalization. Now of course today you see some expressions of our humanity
that pose themselves as the champions of uniqueness. And in some cases there may be some
justification for that pose, but in many really what we're seeing is a reaction to
the incredibly vicious superficial veneer that our modern ideas and culture frame to us
as humans, as being human. And mostly that's a pretty impoverished skeletal mess,
again in our common experience. Now in our life paths we will each pursue goals and purposes,
some of which may involve the resuscitation of our interiority. When we are creative,
if we are artistic in any way, if we dance, or sing, or make music, or draw, or write, or play,
or improvise, but there's a profound background to the seeking, the aspect of ourselves that seeks,
and particularly the aspect that seeks a life path that we want, that we feel to be fulfilling and
authentic. And this aspect is like a fairy story or a magic story in the sense that
questing is involved. And usually questing involves questions and the desire for deep,
intimate understanding of identity, and role, and meaning, and relation.
And this questing is something familiar even to small children, because one of their earliest
