quests involves acquiring the positive attention of adults, particularly usually their parents,
or alo parents, including grandparents and such. And so the child learns,
somewhat by trial and error, somewhat by their own interior nature, to engage in play, exploration,
and demonstration of skillfulness, or knowledge, or intelligence that is rewarded by the adults
around them. And then eventually, similarly, they all begin to do this with other children.
Now, of course, the very earliest phases of our infancy are, how shall I put it,
they're not form-ish, they're unformed. So everything's all together in a kind of flowing,
mysterious, sometimes playful, sometimes frightening, miasma.
And then, over time, the aspects of our intelligence associated with dreaming, play,
questing, they become transformed by our introduction to representational consciousness,
and many of them will become inhibited, again, uniquely for each of us.
They are recoverable, however. And we have the profound capacity to quest, and not merely alone
in our interiority, of course, we're never entirely alone in our interiority, it just appears that way
and often feels that way, but also with others of like mind. And in a sense, you can see that our
modern societies, and all of their bizarre activities, and veneers, and institutions,
these are the results of quests. People had purposes long ago, and they established
standards, metrics, measurements, commodities, transactional protocols.
And we're living in the stratified result, right, there's layers and layers of that.
And it's not very friendly to our humanity to put it mildly, it's not friendly to living beings.
Our supercultures are incredibly toxic and murderous,
rapacious, endlessly hungry, destructive, and yet they give the appearance and portray
each of them in their own way, every subculture, every society, every nation. They portray themselves
as heroes on a quest. Isn't that interesting? I wonder why they might do that. Could it be
that they're attempting to counterfeit the interior urgency
and beauty and promise that we bring to our human birth that results at first in the quest to
acquire language and the positive attention of others, particularly adults, sometimes teachers,
sometimes members, sometimes romantic companions, all of these things you can see how they partake
of questing, right? And there's very simple examples that are immediate, not long-term.
We decide what we will purchase when we go to the grocery store and then we go to the grocery
store and we buy things. We adjust, you know, according to what's present and what's missing.
And that's a little mini-quest. But the kind of questing I speak about is questing for
understanding, for deep vision, for deep intimacy, for wonder, the quest to become beloved of all
that is, the quest to be truly good, the quest to fulfill some of the promise of our human incarnation.
And that's a quest we're always on, whether we're conscious of it or not.
And we feel inside, there's a sense that feels when that quest is being inhibited,
prohibited, counterfeited, we can sense all these things, even though we may not be
overtly conscious of them. And those things are painful.
I spoke earlier of the root elements of knowledge. These I call holophores,
the universe, the sun, the moon, animals, plants, trees, food, dreaming, family, mother,
light, time, hands, eyes. These are fundamental roots that we rarely think of when we use
ordinary language. But they are all involved for if we did not know the meaning of the world,
if we did not have at least a placeholder there, we couldn't then transit from that category to one
of the subcategories like plants or animals or humans. And over time, these roots have been
catastrophically flattened. They've lost dimensionality. And with that loss, they lost our capacity,
our capacity to relate deeply with them, was severely inhibited.
Minor corrections to these roots result in cascades of corrections in the subcategories.
And this is one of the reasons why relativity was such a profound discovery for physics,
because it radically altered a holophore. What is time? What is space?
By saying these two cannot be separated. They are always together.
And that changed the meaning of everything. But because we have the separate
knowledge path of science and within that physics,
the implications for identity of relativity were never integrated into our modern ideas.
And it's really shocking what would happen to our ideas about identity
if the key findings of relativity were integrated into our representational schemas.
And part of what we are questing for, if we want understanding,
is the repair of the problems in our representational cognition and thought
that are the result of historical waves of impoverishment over time.
And when I say these roots matter, just imagine one of them going away.
Imagine the sun goes away. What do you got? No more life, no more minds, no more language,
no more science, no more religion, no more philosophy, no more math, no more anything.
Because all of the ideas that we have are local to humans, at least in their representational form.
So if humans disappear, all those ideas disappear with us. And whatever the sun might be,
the ideas that the humans have about the sun are unique to humans.
Or rather, and the experience that we have of the sun is unique to organisms, not just humans.
But our human experience is a subclass of organismal experience. And in some ways,
a meta class too, sort of both, sub and meta. Knowledge. Such a strange word. No ledge.
What's that the ledge of? That might be a childlike question.
It's not without meaning. What ledge do we want to know? Of course, this word ledge probably
relates to ledger as much as it, like to recording, as much as it relates to edges.
But edges are really important too, in this strange word.
So one of the things that fascinated me when I began speaking is just the difference between
representational knowledge, language concepts and ideas, and intimacy. Which is the form of
knowledge I trust more deeply. And must be the origin of that, of those forms that appear to
overcome it. To replace intimacy with methods, tokens, protocols, language, ideas.
And so what I want to suggest is that throughout my life, I've had a romance with knowledge.
And at first, it was primarily with, no, that's not really true.
It began in intimacy. And I quickly recognized as a child that the adults,
whatever kind of language and knowledge games they were playing, something was badly wrong with them.
Something was broken. Something really important at the core of our cognition.
And this sliver in my awareness kept bothering me like a paper cut or a sliver in my fingertip
throughout my entire life. And eventually, speaking in analogy, it formed
like a little
pustule. And then eventually that broke. And when that broke, that was the moment I began to have
the experience of seeing through representational intelligence towards its origins. And then
I began to recognize its dangers and also unique opportunities that are otherwise invisible
from our ordinary perspective of concern. So I had, I guess I brought to my birth
certain kinds of quests. And I suspect that this is natural to most human beings. They may get lost
or distorted during our lifespan as we grow older and are more and more deeply exposed to the
pressures and confusions of modern technological cultures, again, which I say are not really cultures.
They're much like the structured things that replace intimacy. They're the skeletal
remains of what might have been relationships, but aren't. And in case you wonder about this whole
questing thing and the interior need for vision, for visionary experience that's authentic and
trustworthy, you can just notice that millions of people around the world will go to unimaginable
lengths to simply sit in front of a screen and have visions presented to them. And not
all of that is bad, but a lot of it is deeply confused. And that's a symptom of something
being missing, right? Something having been inhibited, prohibited, lost, transformed, buried,
replaced, so that we're starving for visionary experience and people will spend huge chunks
of their lives staring into screens to watch things that never happened.
And to watch people pretending, engaged in wild make-believe and illusion.
You know, I watch a TV show, the man turns a lever. The lever has nothing to do with anything.
It's my mind that connects the lever to what it's supposed to control. That lever is just a prop.
So we spend vast quantities of our time, many of us anyway,
watching things on screens. And you know, many people don't. There are certainly people that
just don't like that at all and have long ago, most of them, you know, participated at some
point in their lives. But I don't like it. I don't like watching things on screens.
I want life. I want roles that matter. I want companions. I want meaningful engagement of my
skills, gifts, abilities and vulnerabilities, weaknesses. I want to explore being human.
And I don't want to do it. I don't want that exploration mediated by machines. I don't want
it counterfeited by films and television shows and radio programs and so on.
Now again, the broadcast media is a vast topology. And there are islands in that topology that are
profoundly beautiful and that can actually help us in our quest to reawaken our faculties,
intelligences and curiosity. But most of the field is filled with counterfeits,
addictions, pretense, representation. And we must be really, really hungry for something
to spend so much time relating with machines. What are we starving for? This is the question we
must pursue together. And we must become the answers to this question, not merely derive the
theory or the language or the description. I feel the urgent necessity
of pursuing an amnesis together. And when I make these recordings,
however humble they may be, and I consider them mostly to be very, very humble,
I feel humble in making them. This is part of my quest to pursue an amnesis together,
to pursue the recovery of our intelligences, our faculties, our anciently evolved relationships
with the sky, with origin itself, with time space, with the sun, the moon, the planets, the stars,
the living places, all of the animals, of the land, of the water, of the air, the insects,
the plants, the trees, the microorganisms. For here on earth, we have a paradise,
unimaginable if we were to be traveling through the incredibly
vacuous expanse of what we understand to be space. Now, of course, our understandings of space
are also confused, but we can easily see that the space outside earth's atmosphere
is very unfriendly to organisms as we understand them. That doesn't mean there aren't other kinds
that could dwell entirely in space and would find our terrestrial environment deadly.
There may well be such forms of life, and if someone asked me to speculate, I'd say it was
likely. But there are other classes, the category trees we are given in English are broken,
they're missing whole branches of the tree. There are things, there are,
how shall I put this? There's a class beyond a being, and one of the classes beyond a being
is a super organism, right, like the earth, or a beehive, or a pot of dolphins, or a team of humans
passionately engaged together in a quest. But there are whole categories missing from our
linguistic tree, and it's a fascinating pursuit to attempt their recovery or understanding.
There is a class that is more than a being, and if you think about the sun, it must be more than
a being, it generates beings as a side effect of its activity in time space. Now of course time
space is involved, there's a relationship there, maybe even a love affair, but something that
generates beings must be more than being, than a being, right, especially if it generates
profuse forms of being, the way that the combination of the sun and the planets and the moon and the
sky and the earth do. And of course light and water, you know, which we think of as things,
but suppose they're not things, suppose we got the class wrong for light, what if it's not a thing?
What if it's neither a thing nor a being, but it's something mysterious that we have no category
for as yet? And what if water is similar? These kinds of questions compel me to continue
to try to understand the nature of our experience as beings and the nature of our world and the
universe. Earlier I mentioned the supercontainer, what's the universe? And I just want to
briefly discuss the possibility that the humans are not the possibility. I want to discuss
a behavior, an intellectual behavior, a cognitive behavior related to the supercontainer.
So religions comprise assaults on the supercontainer. And what I mean by that is they want to tell you
exactly what the universe is, is for, and is doing.
And if that attack succeeds, all the categories beneath the supercontainer shrivel up. They shrivel
into distorted likenesses of whatever limitations we put on the supercontainer. And similarly,
if we return mystery and wonder and the unknown, which is truly most of what's going on in human
minds, 99% of what's going on at least, probably much more than that, is unknown. We have the
tiniest little purchase on meaning and identity, cognitively, intellectually, verbally. And yet
we are prone to pretend not only that that knowledge is complete, but that it's explicitly true,
which is impossible. And any move like that will wreck the foundations of a mind.
We cannot become intelligent in a situation like that. We will be trapped by the catastrophic poverty
of the structured fictions we use to see into identity and meaning.
And for most of us, this is the result of our in-languaging. It gives us some skills and abilities
in domains that would otherwise be inaccessible. But the price is far too high. We lose our
interiority. We lose the other intelligences and faculties that are natural to our form
as an organism and to our spirit and our essence as beings.
So you can see all kinds of attacks on the supercontainer. And you don't have to go to the
universe to make one. You can go to people. What are people? Oh, well, people are just dumb.
People are just mean. People are just greedy. These are attacks on the supercontainer. They're
trying to change one of the root holophores. And if that meaning becomes impoverished,
all other related classes and categories inherit that impoverishment. Similarly,
if that meaning moves just slightly toward a more inclusive truth, the same result happens in all
of the subcategories. The roots of human cognition are badly damaged by tokenization, which has
occurred over the past couple thousand years, primarily it seems, certainly since humans began
making settlements. This was a major developmental milestone that set us on a very specific course
of probable and actual futures, cognitively, socially, environmentally, intellectually,
spiritually, essentially.
In this discovery that our knowledge systems have roots and that when they're distorted,
our minds are damaged. And when they're repaired, our minds flourish. This is a profound and amazing
thing to realize. Someone who realizes this will have access to forms of vision and knowledge
that others will never come near, except again, perhaps in moments of crisis, transformation,
birth, and death. Rescue also. There's a great intensity that's beautiful when a being risks
themselves to aid another being. This is something that always felt natural to me
and profoundly rewarding. I won't tell personal stories about it at the moment. Some of them are
a little silly, but well, I will tell one. I remember once I often tried to rescue bees that
have been downed because it's cold or by pollution. And in the city, that's a pretty common thing.
And one day I saw a very large bumblebee and I had never handled one. When I rescued the bees,
I just handled them. I put them in my hand and I let the warmth of my hand help them to
recover their energy because that warmth allows their body fluids to flow more freely, allows them
to breathe and energize their bodies and prepare for flight. And often, almost always, they'll return
to the sky after I handle them for a little while. And it's dangerous, you know. They have to understand
that I'm not a threat and if they sting me, they will die and I will be hurt. But I've never been
stung while doing this. But this time it was a bumblebee and it was a really big one, probably a queen
or really a matriarch.
And I warmed her for a while and she flew from my hand into the center of the street
outside my home and it was rush hour. And in order to try to continue to help her,
I had to essentially kneel down on a busily trafficked street and attempt to coax the bee
back to my palm. And I knew that it was not probably terribly likely that I would be killed,
but it was certainly possible that I could be killed. And people watching me would have no idea
what I was doing. In other words, I would look like I'm being abnormal. Someday I'll make a
video about the problems of humans simulating the surveillance and perspectives of others
in order to try not to offend someone or something or break some rule or look like they're
not normal, so on and so forth. This is a huge topic because in our minds,
