Hi everybody. Thank you for joining me. I'm out for a walk in the garden looking at some
beautiful hummingbird sage plants returning to their seasonal greenery and just starting
to produce a few buds and the hummingbird sage plants have an incredible fragrant
oily substance that they produce on their flowers and some on their leaves and it's just an amazing
scent but it's a little bit oily and sticky so some people won't you know want to have that on
their fingers but I just love it. It seems like a natural balm and I absolutely love the
sages all of them particularly the Whirly Blue. It's one of my favorites. Its flowers produce an
amazing nectar. Just a moment I'm having a little interaction with one of my friends here,
my Blue Jay friend.
It's wonderful to have a wild bird land on my hand and just feel the life,
the spirit of that little animal. A spirit as big as a mountain inside a very small creature.
So I have a little bit of a game plan today. I'm going to orbit the topics of language,
identity and meaning and this will necessarily draw me into some explorations of knowledge.
Now problematically,
although our words have different senses and by senses I mean the numbered definitions that we
might find associated with a given word in the dictionary and these are the formal senses of
words. So that for example, if I use the word vision, two senses that come immediately to mind
are very relatively simple. One is to see, to have vision is to be able to see or to be seeing.
But of course there's another sense of vision which is much more mysterious and has to do
with the idea of something we find deeply transformative or oracular or wise.
To see, to have far-seeing, but not just in terms of what we see with our eyes,
but rather how we use our minds to imagine analogies and meanings and connections and
qualities, possible futures, repercussions of actions and so on.
And so we have this word visionary that implies a kind of far-seeing or really deep-seeing
that's uncommon to many to many of us in our ordinary experience even though
nearly all of us have visions at night. We have dreams. And dreaming is a kind of visionary event.
But there are other kinds and there are kinds that resemble dreaming very closely and other kinds
that resemble something more like lucid dreaming and other kinds that resemble, well I don't know
if they resemble anything. There are other forms that are deeply non-ordinary.
I've had the experience of being almost literally knocked to the floor
immediately in a state of para-dreaming where a vision is then sort of put into me is how it feels.
By what I don't know. However, I suspect by another aspect of my being or my soul or my
awareness that is not like the waking aspect and is often inhibited by the presence of the
waking aspect. So in order for me to have the vision, essentially I had to allow myself
to be almost knocked unconscious. I've had other experiences where
a visionary aspect of my experience
drew me very compelling compelled me toward unconsciousness and I resisted because I was afraid.
I was afraid of dying. And I never gave in to those
somewhat more severe experiences. Unfortunately, I now wish I had. But I have had the sudden feeling
of oh I can't stand up anymore. I must lie down. The moment I lie down, visions arise.
And these visions usually had to do with events that were about to occur in my life,
sometimes fairly ordinary events like I was about to receive a visitor or something.
And the vision would be about them. And often when I spoke of this to the visitor,
who was unknown to me actually, they verified some of the things I'd seen in my vision. One of
them was a doctor. And I described the layout of his house to him and his dog. And he was very
surprised that I could know about those things since we had never met and had no contact before he
showed up at my home for a house call. That didn't actually go terribly well. But the visions were
I think related to the idea of precognition, to know before situations and events arise.
So the vision of seeing and the idea of sight is the analogy we use to describe our interiority.
Even though inside us what's going on clearly isn't seeing.
And during dreaming of course our eyes are closed. And yet there is a world inside us
where perhaps a metalog of seeing, not a mere analog, but something more primordial than ordinary
vision is going on. And of course for people who have always been blind, we lack the language to
understand what happens when they dream, except what they may share with us.
Because for us who are sighted,
dreaming weaves that sense into the interior experience.
And all of these matters are extremely mysterious. Very basic things like identity,
language and knowledge are profoundly mysterious. As far as we know there's no other creature on earth
that uses and is used by, and that's the important additive there,
formal representational cognition, which is the kind of thinking and mind associated with language
ideas and concepts, models and theories and proofs, evaluations and so on.
But when I say things are deeply mysterious, we have a really bad problem, a really thorny problem
as human beings. And the simplest way to say it is something like,
we are inclined to stop learning once we know the name of something. In other words we confuse
being able to point at some phenomenon with a word, the way I might do if I say this is a tree,
with understanding of what we're referring to. So if we have the word we're inclined,
many of us in some situations, to dismiss the phenomenon we have the word for
and go on to the next thing, whatever that might be.
And this is deeply troubling for all kinds of reasons. It results in various sort of catastrophic
processes in human cognition and particularly in what we call our culture, which I would argue
in America isn't much of a culture at all. It's rather an anti-culture masquerading as a culture.
And so what we have are tokens and representations and transactions instead of roles, learning,
together and relationships. But my simple point was knowing the names of things tells us nothing
about their nature or our nature or the potentials and opportunities and dangers of relation.
Formal knowledge about things can tell us some things about opportunities and dangers.
We know for example that fire, uncontrolled, can be dangerous because hurt us or other beings.
And we also know that fire under the right circumstances can keep us warm or cook our food.
And of course not merely fire, but in the modern milieu,
something similar to fire, which is radiation, the stuff that comes out of light bulbs and
microwaves and our computing devices and our phones. But those things are deeply mysterious
and we're very, very naive as a species and in general about the effects of the technologies
we invent, which continue the process of reducing knowledge, relationships, opportunities and threats
to tokens, transactions, theories and models.
Now some degree of that's natural for animals like us in our current circumstances,
but it's important to understand that it wasn't always. And if we take as the norm,
if we look at the history of the development of our minds as we very crudely can reconstruct it from
documents and artifacts, we'll discover surprisingly that for most of human history,
probably 90% of it, knowledge came from intimacy and was rarely tokenized. In fact,
in many indigenous societies, the transfer of knowledge is a sacred ceremony
involving gifts that were given to our people, transmitted to our people,
from living places and animals and plants and relationships in circumstances that moderns would
believe to sound either superstitious or perhaps religious or ridiculous.
But that appearance is misleading and it's the result of the way our cognition developed,
I think particularly once we began building settlements, right? Once our people stopped
being nomadic and moving and living in and with the living places throughout the seasonal
transformations of the environment. So we have this problem of having very sophisticated
systems of tokens. I'm using them now and although I understand the basic meaning of the words that
I'm using, if I trace their structure, it's a very peculiar thing that I end up discovering,
a very profound thing and a very powerful thing to see and understand,
which is that the tree of concepts that our languages comprise
and a tree is just one way of thinking about it, one moment.
Hmm, I'm visiting one of my plant friends and saying hello for a moment.
And my bird friends are nearby and very vigilant for an opportunity to share food.
Let's see how this might go.
Hmm.
Our modern cognition
is or can be understood as a vast stratification of layers of development
that happened over the history of the evolution of the minds that we moderns inherit
and are impressed upon us by our cultures and languages and peers.
It's very clear to me that the hypothesis that our language, the languages we learn,
particularly if we learn but a single language like myself, I know only one formal human language,
English. Though I'm linguistically curious and have dabbled in Hebrew and Arabic and French and
occasionally German and other languages to learn a little more about
how the world of ideas transforms into language in systems outside of English.
But what I wanted to talk about for a moment, and it's something I'm profoundly interested in
and have spoken of at length in other videos, is the idea that
our languages are tree-like and our capacity to understand them meaningfully depends on
roots that we ordinarily don't pay much attention to.
So in order to understand what a tree is, we have to first know something about everything,
like what is it to be alive? What is it to be human?
What is the universe up to? What's it for? What's it doing? Is it purposeful? What is the world?
What is the sun? What are people? What are words? So anytime we use any language at all,
all of these aspects, these root elements,
they are alive underneath the superficial structure
of the language that we're using. And if they were subtracted, we would not be able to make meaning.
Now, of course, our grasp on any of these root concepts is very minimal.
No one knows what the universe is or is doing. Well, it's not entirely true, but very difficult
to know much about that in ordinary language, because in order to understand something that
mysterious, what we need is not so much knowledge or someone telling us things,
we need experience, the same kind of experience that you have
when you taste food or kiss someone you love,
or cuddle with a beloved pet or jump into a body of living water.
And this is an entirely different kind of knowledge. In fact, we don't usually
associate immediately the word knowledge with intimacy, unless we've been given cues
that that's the direction to take our interpretation.
But for the ancient peoples, knowledge came from intimacy,
from living with and for and as other beings, living places,
lineages of family, and also companions and competitors or even enemies.
And the fascinating thing about discovering that there are roots to meaning,
that there are precursors, that we have to at least make a place for,
even though we're not aware of it, before we can begin to understand
the strange games of language that the adult humans play.
And when we are born, we bring with us forms of knowledge
that there's no record of in human culture.
There's plenty of theory and there's academic perspectives, clinical perspectives,
theoretical perspectives. But the intelligence that we bring to our human birth,
and that eventually gets subsumed by human culture and language and concepts and models,
and thus disappears for most of us, though it may survive on little islands
of passion or creativity or deeply felt sentiment.
But the intelligence that we're born with is so profound
that it can acquire the language and the culture not merely of any human culture we might be born
into, but perhaps of any kind of culture, including the culture of plants, animals, living places,
but also including non-ordinary cultures.
Cultures of beings whose nature is not obvious in regular language
and becomes confused by our ideas about religion, spirituality, philosophy, science,
ways of knowing, right? These are each ways of knowing.
And all of these ways of knowing are linked and the thing the child brings to their birth,
and of course each child is unique and has unique gifts and also vulnerabilities.
Aspects that are not yet well developed or that may even be inhibited from development.
The intelligence we bring to human birth is capable and I think
longs to know the other intelligences that are accessible to us, and those intelligences are
infinite in form and kind. They're limitless.
And while I'm not trying to tell anyone what to think or how to see, it's my experience that
the tiny island of human representational consciousness, for all of its seeming advancement
and sophistication, not always a good property, that sophistication, is blind and blinding
to the other forms of knowledge and the other kinds of intelligence
that are natural to our human nature, our human form. But the intelligence that is brought
to the world in our infants and is alive in them, it longs for non-ordinary companions.
And we have many stories about this and in fact we make endless films about it.
One of the bizarre things about that is that human beings endowed as we are
with our astonishing capacities for intelligence, creativity, learning,
skillfulness, crafting, manipulation with our hands, singing, dancing. These incredible gifts,
they languish. Once we begin to acquire the veneer of representational thought from adults
and our peers and our culture and television and computers and so on,
the roots of the intelligence become compromised by the structured forms
that we inherit and are emphasized, rewarded and demanded by our modern cultural milieus.
Although again I'm prone to think of them as anti-cultural mostly.
And this is another problem in that, in representational cognition,
we can counterfeit vision, we can counterfeit knowledge, we can counterfeit understanding
or awareness, we can even counterfeit aspects of consciousness. And these can be sold back to us
because in interior, in our interiority, we're starving to death inside for deeply meaningful
experiences of role, who we are, who we can be in a situation or relationship, knowledge,
deep understanding, many of, much of that is visionary, not conceptual.
And effectively meaningful relationships in nature with our own minds, with our own hearts.
So as we are deprived of these things and as they become more inhibited throughout the process
of our enculturation and in languaging that we undergo in youth but also throughout our
entire life it continues. We are losing, you know, we're losing something priceless.
We're trading the living vessel for something like the token of its steering wheel,
right, the representation of its steering wheel.
And I'm thinking of a ship's wheel here.
And that pain of that loss and that inhibition and that deprivation
of being exposed to knowledge that is deep and rich and alive and older than anything language
can encompass and more true than anything facts could ever deliver because the nature
of its truth, the domain in which that truth exists is itself alive. And when we are joined
with that domain, we return to life the same way a plant that's been denied sunlight returns to
life when suddenly the sun emerges. Life returns when we can reconnect with these things. And of
course there are many ploys, plots and such in our culture that counterfeit what's missing and
sell us the broken skeleton the dead thing that we're starving to relate with in a living authentic
way. And so we find enlightenment traditions, cults, religions, cults of opinion, cults of theory,
cults of language. And for most of us, we will be very lucky if we can develop any of the skills
