many of us are constantly simulating surveillance and
that's not too surprising because we learn to form minds under the surveillance of our parents
and peers. So it's not surprising that awareness of being surveilled is crucially important
and provocatively formative of both our thinking for a moment
and our speaking.
I know people who are so compelled by the circle of interior critics
they've adopted in their minds that they can barely put a sentence together
because they don't trust the language and it's good that they don't trust the language. The
problem is the profusion of critical mindsets that are essentially attacking them while they're
only merely trying to say something. And this has become vastly more common today than I think
it's ever been. Topic for another talk, however.
Although I want to say something further about this.
It's only been about 20 or 30 years since we could all be closely surveilled
much of the time and our thoughts and movements and actions
could be either recorded or inferred by our activity with machines.
That is a toxic nightmare for human minds. That is a mausoleum
where our interiority shrivels up and dies.
We cannot survive the necessity of simulating the constant surveillance
not merely of people but of institutions, corporations, governments.
This is the kind of inhibition whose injustice is monumental.
And I believe that we must find a way to give answer to this and to invert that paradigm
so that we have the capacity for positive mutual observation
but we are protected and have privacy in our lives and thoughts and interests and quests.
Privacy is one of the most important assets that can protect our interiority
from the ever-hungry and ever more deadly and inhibiting aspects of our modern situation.
And I was talking about attacks on the supercontainer.
It's very difficult to not generalize. In fact, if I look back over this talk,
I'll find that I was generalizing all over the place.
But there are certain modes of generalization that are particularly
problematic for knowledge and intelligence. And these are the forms I'm concerned about.
It's weird. One can attack the supercontainer from the direction of religion
and say, everything is just this God game.
And one can also attack it from the perspective of science and say,
there are no non-physical beings. There's no evidence of non-physical beings.
The universe is just material and the fact that there's organisms is an accident of that material.
It seems wildly impossible to me. But I can understand the motives that produce that lens.
The motives of acquiring what we might call justified true belief or what we sometimes
refer to as objective knowledge. A peculiar idea. There are no objective perceivers or never were.
And the fact that two perceivers agree doesn't render their perceptions objective.
However, we can use the language in a limited way and understand what is meant by it without
agreeing to its overarching authority.
And in my entire talk, you can see in the background this topic of authorization.
What do we authorize in our thinking? What do we authorize in our cultures?
What do we authorize in our interiority, in our dreaming?
What do we pay attention to as truly trustworthy and authentic? And you can see all around us the
rather surprising crisis that we moderns face, particularly as individuals, but also as cohorts
and communities and nations. Presuming, of course, the communities actually still exist.
Of course, some do. When I use this word community,
this is the problem with generalizations. I'm referring to a billion different things
with one word. And it's easy to become lazy and think, because I know the word community,
I know what I'm referring to. I don't. Again, this is now I've finally circled back.
More than 99% of whatever's going on is completely unknown. 70% of it might be unknowable.
And much more of it is unknowable in terms of representational consciousness.
And the forms of knowledge that we associate with representational consciousness are profoundly
limited. They're a very thin veneer and a very specialized aspect of knowledge.
If we were to take just our representational knowledge, we know way, way less than a millionth
of a percent of what's going on. And in fact, our representational knowledge is meaningless
without our interiority to interpret and respond, to formulate, to object, to reformulate,
and to continue that process. I was talking with someone the other day about some statistics,
and they said, well, where are the statistics for this? There's no statistics for this.
We've got all these statistics for this. And I talked about how statistics very rarely capture
much of the phenomenon they're associated with, and the phenomenon continues to transform and
diversify vastly faster than any kind of testing or measurement can catch up with.
But I said to my conversation partner, well, you know, there's essentially two reasons.
This isn't true, but this is my clumsy movement, my clumsy move at the moment.
I said there's essentially two reasons to seek knowledge, to look at statistics,
to look at research. The first is to confirm your opinion or what you already believe.
You look for evidence that supports your biases, your beliefs, your opinions.
Not particularly intelligent tends to lead to a particular kind of ignorance. And the other
is to learn, to transform what one thinks or believes. And after mentioning that, I produced
the statistic that my companion said had not been provided. And I said, like, here's the
statistic that you said we couldn't find that no one's talking about. It's right here.
The CDC statistic, not unsurprisingly.
And thankfully, my companion, and we are well known to each other to put it mildly,
was responsive and realized, hmm, maybe learning is more important than validating my pet grudge.
But these are the kinds of choices that we face as representational humans immersed
in a kind of psychological warfare through our relationship with news and media and so on and
so forth. And it's tragic. But if we would just allow the unknown, the mystery of being,
back into our consideration, right, and stop forming models that pretend that they're complete
or true, if we could suspend some degree of our trust in the representational paradigms
that we've learned to emulate, then our chances to grow our opportunities for an amnesis
would immediately flourish. And that would be a beautiful thing, something I always hope for,
something I'm always pursuing with love and passion and wonder.
The moon is just past the first quarter. It's beautiful. I can see the stars, Orion,
the dipper. It's nighttime.
Thank you so much for joining me. I hope that our journey together has been nourishing
and has brought some inspiration and insight into your inner world.
I look forward to walking and learning together again soon. Bye-bye for now.
