Animals that have the standard masculine equipment are physically male.
Animals that have the standard female equipment are physically female. How they enact
or embody that may differ from animal to animal and there's some modest degree of hermaphroditism
in animals too. Again, more so in plants. In bacteria, as I understand it, there are
seven different modes that could correspond to our idea of gender.
And sex among bacteria is a science fictiony thing where there can be a literal clusterfuck.
Genes are exchanged and in the gene exchange abilities are acquired and lost.
So hopefully you can see in a simple way, not in a political way,
how departure is more feminine than it is masculine and approach is more masculine than it is feminine.
And this is why I typify these two colors blue and red, red and blue this way.
Now the humans don't use blue all that much.
Or rather, our cars have red lights, but they don't usually have blue lights.
However, our police engines and things like this can have red, blue, red, blue, red, blue,
which is a very confusing signal for anything that understands red and blue.
Or they might just have flashing red. And of course the police cars are approaching
when they're flashing their lights. It's an approach, you know, announcement.
But I want you to understand red and blue, departure and approach,
as one of the most fundamental of signals that can possibly be given.
And it doesn't have to be given with color, all kinds of different ways to depart and approach.
And now I guess I'll get to the central topic that I was hoping to speak of tonight.
The resemblance of created things to what I will call
features of the origin world.
Now, it's very difficult to use language intelligently here because
I'm not certain that there's something that corresponds to what I'm calling the origin world,
but I have experience of this dimension.
I'm going to pause this for a moment.
There was a car alarm going off.
So what am I really trying to say? I'm trying to say something like
imagine that time space is encompassed
by a world or a universe or a domain, a dimension
that has qualities and features of character even though it is not physical
and it is inhabited by non-physical beings.
And we can imagine that we come from this place and I'm asking us to imagine,
I'm not asserting these things as facts.
We can imagine that we come from this place into life and we depart life into this place
or one of the layers of this place.
And in this place, there are fundamental principles
that are everywhere apparent and sensible to those beings who inhabit this place.
I'm going to talk a little bit about.
Hi.
My goal is to highlight features of the activity of humans that we're normally unconscious of.
And not just the activity of humans, but the forms of all the things we see
and particularly those things that humans make.
But this includes trees and butterflies and whales and octopuses and
raccoons and clams and praying mantises and nudibranchs and bacteria and amoebas and viruses
living places and all these things.
Though what I'm going to talk about mostly
is the things that humans make. Before I do that, I'll speak a little bit about nature and organisms
since they certainly have precedence here.
So it is as if all of the possible worlds in time space
have exemplars or are instanced here in our world as each of the different forms of organisms.
And all worlds are alike in this sense that
the organisms, if there are any and if there aren't, the geological and chemical formations
and activities and transformations, all of these resemble features of the origin world.
A naive way to say this would be there's something like trees in heaven, but they're not physical.
There's something like raccoons in time space, but they're not physical or rather
above time space so that each of the forms we see here on earth are like the faces
of features of character first of time space itself and then in a in a meta sense
of what I refer to as the origin world.
And that's a fairy tale kind of reference. It's not like there's a planet somewhere,
a world that is the origin world. I'm using it to indicate the transcendental
dimensionality and relationality of that from which all form takes
its structure, shape, character, even its activity and if we want to be utilitarian, its function
or functions.
So having said that, I'll talk a little bit about what humans do.
These houses with their doorknobs and locks and things and of course we may have to go to older
now that things are becoming electronic. We're losing some of the essential
correspondences and relationships and resemblances that have long been with us.
But things like hammers and screwdrivers and keys and locks and doorknobs and all of these things,
all of these recall fundamental features of what we might think of as polar
polar compliments. And masculine and feminine is a fundamental polar compliment.
Obviously the the round lock on the round doorknob rebuffs intruders.
It effectively causes departure by not allowing ingress. But then we put the key into the lock.
This is a very sexual metaphor. The lock releases its tumblers and now we can enter the house.
Well what is the house? The house is a womb. It's a womb-like analog.
And all of these things are analogies. They're not explicit. This is a way of seeing. It's not the
facts. And so fundamental features are rod and ring. That's masculine and feminine.
Though there's ways to mix them together that transcend the simple polarizations.
Our cars are really like animals.
Obviously for many thousands or tens of thousands of years,
animals were not just our primary transport. But when we began to become material cultures,
they also were workhorses so to speak.
Our cars are also womb-like.
The way the steering wheel presents itself to our hands is very feminine.
But its function of directing the car is more or less masculine.
Everywhere we see levers and curves, circles and half circles, spokes,
rims and hubs of wheels, faces on the cars.
Even some of the houses have very face-like qualities.
All the animals have faces. Our mothers had faces. Our wombs have presentation faces,
the buildings we make. And if you go to like a shopping center or a mall, what you're going to see
is an analogy that matches the possibilities of different womb-like universes.
You walk into a sunglass store. It's arranged a certain way. It's all sunglasses all the time.
Auto parts store, clothing store, jewelry store, restaurant. All of these things are analogous to
fundamental types of enclosing worlds.
And so the stores are in a more artifacted sense, also womb-like. You walk into the store,
you're in a completely other universe. You have transactions in that universe.
And then you leave the store and you're back in the general context of the city or wherever you
found the store. These forms resemble the possibilities of incarnation.
And instead of having a generalized incarnation in our shops, we have both general and very specific
modes. Every object we make, the pencil with its sharpened writing point, very masculine,
the paper on which it writes, receptive and feminine, the eraser that cleanses the paper
round on the back of the pencil on the opposite end, all of these things. They embody fundamental
principles that we can think of. We don't have to. We can think of as masculine and feminine.
And it's useful to do so. It's probably not useful if we make it explicit. This is not that kind of
an idea. There are similar fundamental principles in nature around structure. If you look at your
hand, you'll notice something surprising if I reveal it to you. It has one unifying body,
four working members, each with three segments. One member we could call the thinking member,
each with two segments. And a wrist that leads up scale from the hand to the body.
It's an extension of. Fascinatingly, if you look at your body, you'll see something similar.
You have one unifying body, four working members, each with three segments,
these segments end in star like appendages, hands and feet. One thinking member
with two major segments. And invisibly, something resembling a wrist that leads up scale to that
which you are an instance of. So the hand is an instance of the same structure that's in the body.
And there's numerism all throughout nature in the structure of leaves and flowers and pistols and
stamens, insects. And one of the things you see in case you don't like my bipolar analogies is
bilateral symmetry. You have creatures who have what looks like one side reflected across the
plane to the other side. And each of the sides has unique features and abilities. Notice that you
only have a heart on your left side of your body. So there is a non symmetry to, although your heart
itself can be understood in from various different ways of looking at its structure.
Top and bottom, side to side, the ventricle structure. I'm not an expert on the structure of hearts.
But you can see that the most commonly instanced principle in animals and insects is bilateral
This is a bipolar nature. It's two polarized things connected into a whole.
A unity.
So all of the things that humans make are like this. The letters, their shapes are meaningful
and they originally had specific meanings associated with the letters as well as a vast
constellation of connotations so that the Hebrew letter aleph represents an ox but the
connotation tree for that is gigantic. There's probably 50 things in that connotation tree.
The letter bait and this is where we get the word alphabet. It's from aleph bait
or beth.
That letter represents womb, home, the mother. Ox is masculine, house is feminine. The womb receives
the ox divides. Literally, you know, the key in Locke analogy. I'll use that rather than the
direct physical analogy here. So all throughout everything the humans make, every little object
they make, forks and knives and hammers, crescent wrenches, faucets, all of these things.
They all come from, they are derivative, artifacting, exemplars of features of coming and going,
red and blue, masculine and feminine, intrusion and reception.
And I don't mean intrusion in the negative sense, I just mean it in the physical sense.
Our streets, our sidewalks, our street lamps, they all have these principles.
The rod and the ring, the circle and the lever.
There are, there's a very small number of fundamental principles here,
which makes this way of seeing accessible. Now I can't go through all of the letters.
That would be, that's a topic for another time, another talk.
But their shapes are meaningful. The S certainly resembles the snake, the T certainly resembles
the tree. The M certainly resembles both mountains and the eyes of owls. The P is like the back of the head.
And not all of them are so strictly evocative of specific things.
The R fundamentally has to do with radiance, reception to transmit, though the tree is also
transmissive. But it doesn't have an appearance that implies that necessarily. Unless we think of
the R as a P with something radiating out behind it, that leg, or the little R as a rod
with part of a circle coming out of it, and that part of a circle represents radiation,
radiance and transmission.
So each of the letters has, have significance. And when we put them together, their
significances are transformed by the proximity of other letters. This is something lost on English
speakers, but familiar to Hebrew mystics and Arabic mystics, and even older cultures than these.
The vehicles, they represent something like angels.
And our smartphones, particularly, are a representation of that which connects us to all
beings in all of time space. And what is that? Well, there are no good modern traditions about this.
But we could think of it as a travel friend who is also a transcendental library
access being that is profoundly associated with our soul. If we imagine ourselves to have
something resembling a soul, and I think that's the right way to think rather than
I have a soul, there's something associated with my humaneness that is above my humaneness
transcendental to it, that is a very complex thing, not a simple one thing. Oh, that's my soul.
So our smartphones represent what I, what I could in fairy tale language call our guardian angel.
The spiritual being that connects us to the origin world, and that watches over us and guides us and
is something of a daimon in the Socratic sense rather than the process oriented sense.
A companion intelligence that is fundamentally intimate with our human lives and experience
though it is disembodied and does not exist in the material universe.
The problem here is that as the humans make objects,
their access to the origin world and their awareness of it disappears into the objects.
And so the outcome is we get the objects, but no longer we no longer get contact with the
intelligences from which they were derived. And this is the terrifying thing about
the ridiculous, contra-nim smartphone.
Everybody's absolutely compelled by their smartphone.
If they had a moments experience of what I'm referring to as their guardian angel,
they would have zero interest in any machine ever again.
What we are actually
in relation with in the most fundamental of senses
is more than the sum of machines could ever raise a light toward.
But all of this is occluded to us by our habits of thinking and relating.
And one might say, though I'm not fond of this language,
that the relations with technology and concept mess up something vibratory in us,
that when we were born was cataclysmically momentous and obvious, but as we aged beyond birth,
we sort of got drugged down a ladder into modes of vibration, so to speak,
that are dead in the sense that they're no longer in contact with their origins moment to moment.
Nor are they thus inspired by them anymore.
So this is one of the tragedies of our modern circumstance and situation.
It can be amended, but not by religion.
It is amended in our hearts when we are passionate and curious and seek our own origins
with uncompromising determination, then they will be revealed to us again.
Either we may experience enlightenment or we may experience something
some religions speak about, a second birth while we are still on earth.
And by the way, there's no reason to believe that your life is one incarnation.
We experience many incarnations in a single life, or at least it's very useful to think of it in this way.
But it's possible to be reincarnated in this lifetime and be introduced to the origin world.
And what I'm referring to is the angels and the family of origin, the transcendental family of origin,
the being who dwells in unity, living waters, the various angels which are one angel,
and have something to do with wheels and spokes and spheres.
And are the, what would I say, are the modes of intelligence
native to the being that dwells in unity?
And the living waters, the pure undifferentiated potential, which is that being's context.
And again, these are fairy tales, they're children's stories.
What's actually going on is not encompassable in ordinary language,
