Hello everybody. Welcome. Out for a walk this evening under the night sky. Here's a very old cat.
Justly suspicious of me, but also interested.
I like old cats. I'm a big fan of old cats, but I'm a pretty big fan of just about everything
that's alive, though I'm not hugely inspired by having a bedroom full of mosquitoes. I
used to kill them, and I'll admit I've killed a few recently, but I'm extremely unfaunt
of killing things. When I was younger, and before I was, let's see, maybe from the time
I was 9 until I was 15 or 16, I was a pretty enthusiastic fisherman. This is a word that
may lose its common usage due to what we call identity politics, something I think of mostly
as a very dangerous array of language games. Though as I've said in other videos, well,
the topic's quite complex because there are no such things as equal humans. And there
are a thousand different kinds of privilege, not one or two. I mistrust the fundamental
structure of the milieu and origins of identity politics very deeply. I also recognize the
necessity for developing careful language and respect for each other in our diversity.
And that's something I believe very deeply, and I just simply don't believe at all that
identity politics is the right way to go about that, or even an intellectually survivable
way, or a conceptually survivable way. But tonight's talk isn't about that, though it
will involve related issues. And if any of you want to engage me directly on matters related
to identity politics, I'd be happy to have that conversation with you. I'd be even excited.
So tonight I'm going to talk about some things that are fundamental, and I've been remembering
them over the last little while. They came up near the end of my previous video when I
started talking about something I see as a fact, but it is invisible to nearly all of us.
And it's the idea of invention. Now, if we take invention in a sort of phonemic sense
to vent inwardly, to inwardly vent, then that's a reasonable idea. But if we take it in the
sense of to authorily originate, now we have a problem, huge complex problem. Because which
one of us is actually an individual? All of our experience for nearly all of us happens
with other human beings in modern cultures. So we undergo relatively modern in-languaging
processes and in-culturation processes. And these are catalytic of our desires and affinities
and aversions and so on. And either, it seems likely, though there are a few possibilities
not to, either we are separate humans. And of course that's more complex too, because
first we are beings, then we are organisms, then we are animals, then we are humans. So
you could think of it as a cone that gets wider as you go up. And it starts at being. Now, of
course, if you take it a little further, it starts beyond being. It starts in the fundamental
essence from which all things originate. And which all things are, well, this is where I'm
going to go tonight, which all things resemble. Now, that resemblance is peculiar. From some
perspectives, it's relatively explicit, relatively. And from others, we can imagine that the context
produces forms and structures and various kinds of organisms and such, and relationships and so on.
And so here are two perspectives, and we can certainly divide them into seven or 12 if we
want. But the first is that all phenomena resemble some quality or characteristic-like
aspect of origin, essence. God, Brahman, Atman, though I'm probably confusing terms here,
I'm not an expert on Hindu terminology. For me, the being that dwells in unity,
which is my word for what people are usually pointing out with the word God, though,
everybody's pointing at something different, or at least there are many distinct ideas or images of
God. What I mean by that term is the pervading, essential awareness, consciousness, intelligence
that pervades all form and time space. And so whether or not that is intentionally productive
of forms, forms arise as a result of its nature, and I'll get into danger if I say activity,
but I'm not that frightened of those dangers. Perhaps I should be. So there are some fundamental
things I want to speak toward this evening. Perhaps I'll clear my throat off mic briefly here.
Before I get into resemblances and correspondences, I want to talk about a couple of principles.
I'm not sure if I obeyed them in the beginning of my video or not. Perhaps I did.
The first one is initial circumstances, initial selections, initial actions,
are determinative of what can thereafter develop. I've got a bit of a throg in my throat. I was
eating some very spicy food a little while ago. That produced results that I'm now experiencing.
Physicists understand that initial circumstances produce limitations in the manifold of futures,
but I want to talk about something humanly accessible here. I want to talk about something
we all experience a hundred times a day. When I saw the old cat, I approached slowly and
knelt down and made in my human way a gesture of recognition and respect. I didn't walk right up
to the cat intruding on its space. I made some choices and when I meet a human, I make similar
kinds of choices. Though I'm talking in the abstract because I'm not talking about meeting
a specific human, talking about a general thing, but I smile and make gentle eye contact
and adjust my body language and my vocal tone to signal to them that I feel communal with
them. Unless, of course, I don't have that feeling or I'm busy or distracted or something. This is
entirely natural to me. It's my natural way of being. It's not affected. The first thing we do when
we wake up in the morning sets the tone for the day. I'm not presenting this in order for us to
become judgmental about ourselves or our initial activities. Most of the time for me, I quickly
take a shower and often, right after that, I may record my dreaming memories. Thereafter,
various other things may ensue, a walk, reflection on my dreaming. Not so very long ago, I would begin
writing almost immediately because I would be filled with inspirations. These days, not so much.
Our first interactions with someone we meet or a situation, a job interview, a chance encounter,
not always with humans, could be with animals or plants. The very first exchanges of communication
between beings are profoundly charged with opportunity. There was a lot more of a frog in my
throat than I thought. What I'm trying to get at here is a good first move often leads to a much
better second move and so on. A neutral first move can kind of go either way. A poor first move
tends to devolve into relatively undesirable future situations, but it doesn't always. It's
not a law. It's a principle. When we're aware of this principle, we can take advantage of it,
and we can use it to great effect. This is a superially profound, those seemingly simple
sounding thing encoded in the cliche, well begun as half done. Not a fan of cliches,
but I wanted to show that it's in the lexicon of cliches and it's there for a reason, or rather
it's there because someone became consciously aware that initial actions, choices, presentations,
motivations, purposes are determinative of future potentials and outcomes. Funny, I can hear a bit
of a frog chorus now and it's not coming from my throat. So this principle is important to understand
that when we begin, whatever it is we may begin, even if it's something very simple, seemingly
simple like washing dishes, how we are in the situation, our approach, our orientation,
whether we are proceeding mindfully or we're half asleep or something, or we're just distracted,
or we're bored, or each of these things contribute and subtract from what is likely to ensue thereafter.
And it's particularly important to understand that as we improve our first moves, the next phase
of the dance, whatever comes after tends to improve by orders of magnitude, not in a stepwise
fashion. And this is why this principle is extremely profound and fundamental. Now I'm relating
tonight things that I was shown and taught during a non-ordinary experience that I'll not
hear or speak much about. I've spoken of it elsewhere. But these are things I learned from an
intelligence that is not human and is certainly real, though it may not be real in the ordinary sense
of the word. I just heard the loud screech of an owl. It's the sound I love. I love all the sounds
that animals make, though. I guess if I were in a jungle where I'd be overwhelmed by such sounds,
and there'd be a cacophony of living sounds, being unused to that, I might find that overwhelming,
troubling, disturbing. What was the second principle? Oh yes, the signal of recognition.
There is, in nature and being,
there is a fundamental language of a kind. I think it would probably be wiser to call it a meta
language or a proto language, which pretty much everything understands.
I learned about this when I was very small by relating with tiny creatures, snails and ants
and bees and praying mantises and spiders, plants and trees and streams, clams.
One of my first pets was a clam that I found in a stream.
There's a universal language, and there are stories about this
in religious texts and elsewhere. There are stories that the humans used to understand the
universal language, but then, and there was a secondary language that was local to particular
peoples, and then the universal language was lost, and then the tongues of the humans split into
all kinds of branches.
It is said that when yogis are deeply meditating in India,
cobras come and hang out with them, and this is part of what I mean, but not
its aside analogy. It's not the important thing.
Nature is much, much older than we think. It's common to think while life on earth is
4.3 billion years old, life on earth is about 3.7 billion years old.
Unfortunately, you have to magnify that number by the number of distinct organisms that ever
lived, and since there's about 53 trillion cell organisms in your body and perhaps
hundreds of trillions of viri, viruses, or at least 100 trillion.
A single second in your body is probably more time than 3.7 billion flat years.
It's possible, however, that even if life were brand new, it would be ancient,
because it's an expression of something vastly older than time
and profoundly intelligent, not in a conceptual way.
So,
organisms, when they come into contact, have thousands of ways of sensing the disposition of the other,
or, in case of groups, others, and some of them are very simple.
There's an old game I was taught
where there are essentially two roles, guest and host,
and there's a negotiation between guest and host that goes on when they come into contact.
It can often be helpful if it's possible, though this isn't usually helpful with humans,
it can be, and our technologies use this principle.
Where there's a signal, and the signal is repeated by the guest,
and the signal is repeated by the host, and the signal is repeated by the guest,
and then they match speed, and then they establish some kind of protocol for correcting errors,
so that if I say a simple sentence to you, you can say back to me,
if I say a simple sentence to you, and with each repetition you work to match tone and rate of
transmission, and all of these kinds of things, and then eventually there's an acknowledgement
of connection. We're connected now. Now this happens in every kind of interaction,
but it's a fundamental principle that we're not usually conscious of,
and we don't always do the explicit thing I'm discussing here. I don't go up to someone,
and they say hi, and I say hi, and they say hi, and I say hi, and they say hi, and I say hi.
We negotiate these things largely non-verbally as humans, and in most of nature it's certainly not
verbal, but many animals recognize signal repetition, and everything knows the ancient
connection language of how to negotiate connectivity with a new partner or
interactor. Now the communications game gets fairly complex, because it can become a situation where
after the initial signal negotiation phase that involves tone and repetition and attention,
and usually if we're wise we establish an error correction protocol. So in human language this
looks like repeating back what someone said pretty much verbatim as close to what they said is
possible for the repeater. Let me get this straight. Did you just say I saw a white owl
at the oak tree by the river yesterday at 430? And if the other person says yes,
now we've done something useful. Now the initial communicator, who we might think of as the host,
knows for a fact that we're paying very close attention, and that we take this not seriously,
but we take this as important. Important enough to be able to repeat back to them what they said.
We are capturing their communication in a clear and concise way, and this signals
interest, presence, awareness, the intent to communicate deeply and to receive deeply,
all these kinds of things. There's a lot of different features of this game, and again our
technologies, particularly the old technologies that involved modems, though many of our modern
technologies are quite similar. They did exactly this. There was
some high-pitched chirping going back and forth during which maximum speed of transmission,
error correction protocols, and other protocols were enacted, and then there'd be some kind of,
after that, identity negotiation. I am a host. What is your status? I am a guest. Okay, you are a guest.
What is your, what are your identification tokens?
Which we still use in nearly all of our technologies. We call them usernames and passwords.
So there's a verification of identity, there's identity validation,
and this happens in nature. All of these things are abstracted from nature,
though we're not ordinarily aware of them. So this game is fundamental. So the first thing I
discussed was, well, not the very first thing, but in this portion of the conversation, or the
my speaking, was a good first move is incredibly valuable. If we can remain aware of this, we will
benefit profoundly throughout our lives in all kinds of different ways.
And the second thing is that there's a universal language, and
one of the features of the universal language that's different from the game that I just sketched
is the fundamental principle of the colors red and blue.
It's very complex why these two colors are particularly important.
And in our human lives, we notice the humans use the color red all over the place,
but it almost always means trouble. And some people say, well, that's because our blood is red.
Yeah, sure, not untrue. But actually, we have both red and blue blood vessels.
And our blood when deprived of oxygen may turn bluish, we can become cyanotic.
But it has more fundamentally to do with the nature of light,
and what's called red shift and blue shift in astronomy.
A star departing or moving away from us will shift red and a star approaching us will shift blue.
And so in nature,
this language of approaching and departing is a fundamental aspect of all communication,
whether or not beings have eyes, they still sense approach and departure.
And red has more negative connotations and could be understood as feminine.
And blue tends to have positive connotations and can be understood as masculine.
Why I select the gender equivalencies
is a complex discussion that could make my recording too long.
I wonder if I can say something simple about it without getting into too much trouble.
Hmm.
For most organisms and particularly animals, the females are reticent, they depart.
The males are demonstrative and they approach.
You can see this demonstrated in almost every kind of animal.
It's not an explicit law. It's a principle.
But it's blatantly obvious. The female pigeon says no 60 or 70 times commonly before
either the male wears her down or she actually decides he's a reasonable mate.
And males and females know about this game, whether they want to admit it or not,
they may have other ideas and think there's not two genders, there's 70 genders or whatever it is,
they think. That's just them thinking. In point of fact, biologically, there are,
for most organisms, not all of them, fundamentally two genders and not all of those
organisms embody the genders in the same way or way that matches the paradigm I'm presenting here.
But overall, it's extremely common for the paradigm I'm presenting to be
enacted in animals. Now plants are a much more peculiar situation in which
hermaphroditic situations are far more common. Trees can have male and female flowers
and so on and so forth. However, the whole idea of gender is an overlay and it's a conceptual overlay.
And this is part of why we have the weird situation we have now is that somebody realized this.
They're like, wait a minute, this is just an overlay. Well, it's not just an overlay.
