unlikely to discover this.
Though sometimes couples who have been together and are then separated for a time by circumstances
or work or war or misadventure will discover some of the depth and opportunity and senses
and faculties and ecstasies that lie outside our common ideas about sex and love.
And these are infinitely broad and rich and deep.
When we are separated, there's a chance that courtship will begin again.
And like I said, I'm a big proponent and it's not merely in sex or love that courtship
is important as we can see if we look at the different kinds of relationships we are involved
in.
There's something resembling courtship, perhaps it's an analogue or a counterfeit in attempting
to acquire a job or buy a house or a car really when we buy anything.
Courtship like many of our other capacities has been deeply captured and compromised by
the systems and layers of structured transactions that comprise our society.
Some part of me was academically thinking, Darren, you're talking about the politics
of ecstasy, except I'm not trying to talk about the politics of anything.
I'm really trying to share a perspective that I find compelling and astonishing.
I'll never forget some of the experiences that I've had almost accidentally with loving
other people and not just sexually because I can deeply fall in love in a non-erotic
way and I speak just for myself here with a man or an elder or a dog or a bird or a
child or a tree and I don't go around trying to have sex with everything that I love, tend
to reserve that again myself for women.
So there's all different kinds of flavors of eros and we feel eros differently with
each person and even in each moment.
But some of the experiences I've had staggered my imagination and were in their own unique
ways at least as shocking and overpowering as a physical orgasm might be.
There are other kinds of orgasm.
I remember seeing a video a long time ago, a meme-like video on the internet where a
woman and her boyfriend were riding a kind of a ferris wheel that for parts of the circle
the gravity disappears and so they're in free fall.
When the girl began having a series of orgasms, which isn't terribly surprising, it's like
our pelvis and our lower abdomen that feels that loss of gravity and is transformed by
it.
She started having really extreme orgasms and I think I remember her saying something
to him like, wow, I wish it could be like this when we were together.
I'm like, that guy must have been destroyed.
A ferris wheel outperformed him.
But there you can see that there's something going on that we're not aware of.
She wasn't having orgasms because her vagina was being stimulated or penetrated.
She was having orgasms because her relationship with gravity had transformed in an unexpected
way and her body responded to that with orgasm.
And so I think there's a forest of ecstasies that we're largely unfamiliar with because
we never find ourselves in contexts where they are catalyzed.
And deep reverent courtship is one of those contexts, whether it's intentional or accidental.
There's a universe of unexplored ecstasies associated with our humanity and our bodies
but unless we're very lucky or very curious, we will overlook.
And the power of physical orgasm is gravidic.
Few of us, given the opportunity to have loving intercourse with someone we adore, will continuously
resist that urge.
Why would we do that?
Just seems like depriving ourselves of pleasure and intimacy and not entirely untrue.
But it's almost like someone tasted strawberries and decided that all other fruit was uninteresting.
This is the problem that we have.
Physical orgasm that we have during sex or sex play is really overwhelming and it's
very near at hand if we both decide that that's what we'd like to do together.
So it's a weird idea but physical orgasm is really the low-hanging fruit of ecstasy.
And as we become familiar with it, and women and men tend to be different in lots and lots
of ways that I will not hear catalog, but as we become familiar with it, men I think
much more so than women, us poor guys, we're just not as diverse and complex as women and
again I'm speaking in broad generalities which there are endless exceptions to.
But us men can become very single-minded about such matters and most of us, with some exceptions,
are unaware that there are other fruit.
Chewing on a sour grass stem.
It's really good, very sour, quite crunchy.
It's interesting, I associate crunchiness with fried things, but this is a very crunchy
living thing.
And of course apples are crunchy and so on.
Now you can see how this is related to my earlier introductory talk on purpose.
Most of the women, many of the women that I speak with, which isn't a huge cohort, find
it extremely troubling that they're viewed as sexual objects or sexual targets, or targets
of the unwanted sexual attention of men in general.
And that's another really deep and complex topic that I don't intend to encompass.
Nonetheless it's important to introduce it because there's a good reason
for the embedded caution of females, lots of good reasons, or rather evolutionary purposes,
developmental purposes, emotional purposes.
But in the broad spectrum of humans you'll find every possible behavior, not just those
that I'm brushing briefly past in my talk.
It's probably true that many lovers who identified as gay or lesbian or queer, transgender, so
on, have had experiences of the other kinds of ecstasy, the other kinds of erotic ecstasies
that I've been speaking towards.
In some cases to be discovered as a man having sex with another man would get you killed
or castrated or tortured or imprisoned and in many parts of the world that's still true.
Although too with women, though somewhat less so with the men, it's right on the surface
of things.
And some of these couples discovered glades in the forests of ecstasy that others who
could more freely engage in physical love were bound to overlook.
And when I say there's lots of kinds of orgasm, I don't mean four or five, I mean hundreds.
In a sense to be embodied is fundamentally ecstatic.
Children experience this all the time.
A lot of that ecstasy gets inhibited, misdirected, redirected, captured, compromised, and so
on as we get older, which is a tragedy I'd love to remedy.
And actually in general humans suck at talking about sex.
Again, there are exceptions.
They also suck at thinking about sex because they have structured imperatives and frameworks
that have been embedded in our consciousness that have nothing to do at all really with
our sexuality except that they inhibit it and redirect it.
And that's a real tragedy.
So the purpose, you know the problem for many women and for many men too, but on the other
side of it is that the quote-unquote average guy isn't particularly deep, probably has
a relatively narrow range of skills and thinking, feeling, and is very attracted to the possibility
of physical sex.
And this may have nothing to do with the goal of having a relationship.
But for those of us who are relationally oriented, there's a wonderful universe of unexplored
territory in the domain that I've somewhat clumsily referred to as courtship by which
I mean the playful mutual engagement in the ecstasies of adoration and discovery and love
and mutual care and protection, healing and comfort.
And if the strong gravity of physical sex overwhelms this, then most of us are evicted
from that garden, sometimes for life.
So I wanted to take a moment and sing the praises of long courtships and even of something
like sexual fasting where although we can have sex, we choose to engage in other ways
so that that doesn't become the easily accessed replacement for deep intimate awareness, adoration,
love, wonder, discovery, invention, exploration.
And if we have that as our purpose, we're going to be living in a very different world
than we might otherwise be used to.
There are so many, there's a library of possibilities there, just waiting for those attentive and
curious and passionate enough to explore them together.
I guess before I go, I want to sing the praises of one other feature of eros, which is just
relational eros.
I can be madly in love with someone who, relationally, or I don't think of them as a sexual partner,
but I think of them as a companion in the way that I did when I was a child before I
had any understanding of sexuality at all.
And it's so profound to have a companion like this.
The intimacies we have known are radically different from those with whom I've pursued
physical relationship.
So many of those were also beautiful.
And when I think of eros, I don't just think, I think of desire.
You know, there's something resembling eros with food, so it's not surprising that there's
an explosion of food porn over the past ten years.
And there's an eros of this living place, and there's the eros of the companions I have
here.
And it's deep and rich, but it's not precisely sexual, it's relational.
And so just as there are libraries of ecstatic experience that our ordinary habits and behavior
may occlude, so too there are deep relational intimacies in companionship that we see presented
to us in stories and films, and we find profoundly moving and may experience some sense of loss
when we are exposed to these stories and films.
You may wonder, well, where in my life is the true companion, or the team, the cohort,
the tribe that can draw me out from my relatively impoverished isolation into the richest and
deepest opportunities of my humanity and heart, and developmental urges?
I hear a woodpecker, and I'm pretty sure that it's making a mating call in the way
it's tapping on the wood.
Thank you for joining me.
I look forward to further explorations and learning very soon.
Your companions and relationships be deep and rich and fulfilling far beyond the confused
froth on the surface of our modern world.
