Hello, everybody.
Out for a walk this afternoon in the Botanical Gardens.
Let me get a little mic noise, wind sound, background noise.
Hope you'll bear with me on that.
Too much I can do about it.
So today, I have in mind to speak around the topics of purpose, desire, romance, sex and
love, and if I'm lucky, courtship.
So I think most people who know me much at all have classified me as a romantic, and
it's probably given my own experience of desire and romance.
It's probably an understatement.
At my core, I can be different ways and different times and different circumstances, just like
all of us, but I think my roots are deeply romantic and they were informed, perhaps to
some degree, by stories in childhood, fairy tales like Snow White and Sleeping Beauty and
other similar things.
I think when I was a child, I sort of had a crush on the tooth fairy and I used to try
to convince her to appear to me when I had lost a tooth.
It's funny remembering something like that changed me in the moment.
Just having these memories changed my thought form, the form of my thinking, my interiority
shifted back to memory from exposition.
And this is the kind of shift that's very important to be able to pay attention to and
to be aware of.
Even if one is expositing, if that's the right word, deposit outwardly.
So yeah, being profoundly romantic placed me in a different category from most of my
peers and other children in my youth so that it led to a variety of tragedies for me.
That wasn't the only thing it led to.
I was very romantic, quite young, so I could develop wild enchantments with the girls that
I liked best in my school.
And that was okay mostly though, got dangerous as we got a little older.
And some of my early experiences were profoundly confusing.
But I'm not really interested in talking a lot about me.
What I want to talk about is purpose.
So underneath our ordinary everyday mind there's something like a matrix, matrix of habituated
purpose of inspirations and inhibitions.
And before we do anything at all, but particularly before we think, analyze, evaluate, compare,
most of us will begin almost always with some kind of a purpose of envelope or orientation.
And when we are thinking or evaluating or criticizing or seeking something, even if
it's something very simple, for example, I'm going to do my dishes or take my dishes to
the kitchen, right, something very simple, seemingly simple, actually not so simple.
Try to take your dishes to the kitchen as any animal other than a human and you'll find,
firstly, you have no dishes, secondly, you have no kitchen, thirdly, you probably have
no hands.
And carrying and or washing dishes would be an extremely confusing idea for 99.9 percent
of the organisms that ever lived on earth.
Before we begin to move our minds at all, there's a purpose of aura.
And usually we relate with all of this stuff quite habitually and very unconsciously.
Part of that's good or beneficial anyway, because if we had to be conscious of all of
the things that we've learned to do as humans, we'd probably fail at a lot of them.
Our bodies and our minds and perhaps even our souls are profoundly capable of a non-ordinary
kind of learning, the kind that makes it easy for you to walk once you've mastered it.
Now in the beginning, we tried to walk consciously.
We had a goal and the goal was to stand up without falling over and then to put one foot
in front of the other.
And as we began to master these abilities, they became embodied, we might say, in our
nervous systems.
And once embodied, consciousness is no longer important, at least not in the same way.
Though we may be conscious of walking, we're not conscious of the probably nearly infinite
number of moment to moment adjustments, rebalances, energy exchanges among muscle systems, all
kinds of stuff that's going on.
Just as we don't, you know, there's some things we don't really have to learn how to
do with our minds at all, like digesting food.
We do have to learn to eat food.
We have to learn, for example, how to eat food in a way that works, so that we don't
hurt ourselves by our tongue, by our cheek, swallow something that hasn't been chewed
enough for us to swallow it safely, and so on.
And some of that's probably inherited, as well as the propensity to get up off all fours
and walk about.
And when you think about it, it's a really astonishing thing that any animal ever pursued
that path evolutionarily, but ours did.
The really astonishing thing about purpose is that when we're unconscious of it, we're
mostly led around by the nose, so to speak, by purpose of habits, right?
When we compare, evaluate, decide whether we like something or agree with it or not.
This purpose of foundation, the habits that we formed, they tend to just operate unconsciously.
But in thinking, speaking, with language, we also find ourselves in a strange situation
where layered histories of the evolution of these features of our ability, our volition
tends to largely disappear, though there's traces of it there, and we rely primarily
then on habits.
So if somebody makes an argument, for example, the argument that COVID doesn't exist, it's
just an idea that people are circulating to gain power and profit.
My habitual, my habits of evaluation, thought, awareness of language, and awareness of purpose
come into play.
And mostly, I'll depend on habits familiar to me, that tends to be easier, it's less
energy-intensive, less attention-intensive, and unless I'm really deeply engaged for some
reason, I'll probably play the way that I usually do with whatever degree of sophistication
I've been able to introduce, and in this case, by sophistication, I mean something like intelligent
clarity rather than unnecessary complexity, which is sometimes how that word is used.
And so, like nearly everyone, even though my habits may be different, in some places
more developed, in others still naive, in others still forming, I'll rely on what's
familiar, and I'll take positions, let's see here, I'm not going to sneeze into the
mic, so I managed to meet that just in time.
So unless I'm aware of my habits, and the ways in which they aid and blind me at the
same time, I'll probably just do the things I'm used to doing with my mind, attention,
thought, consideration, so forth.
But the strange thing about purpose is that it changes our experience and the forms of
mind that we're capable of entertaining.
And so these invisible purpose of networks, we might say, matrices, that are part of the
history of the development of our memory, both embodied memory and cognitive memory.
These purposes will determine the possibility spectrum for our capacities for learning,
discovery, insight, correction of beliefs that are either extremely untrustworthy, wrong,
useful, outmoded, archaic, and so on.
Some of the archaic stuff's good.
We don't want to just throw things away because we've decided, oh, it's 2021, I shouldn't
be thinking thus and such.
And by the way, there's an evaluation.
So you can see how the purpose in that evaluation is something like, oh, get with modernity,
why don't you?
And it's not a particularly trustworthy purpose.
And many of our purpose of orientations are almost like voices from crowds that aren't
present here now.
We've inherited them.
Get with the program.
That's a trope in English.
Get with modernity.
It's a trope.
Nobody's saying that.
What kind of an idea is that?
Is that even meaningful?
What does it mean?
And of course, we may mean something by it if we use this trope, but someone else hearing
it may take something completely different from what we've said, especially if there
isn't much shared context or if the context has been compromised.
Before we move our minds or attentions, we have purposes.
And even in the moment-to-moment flow of thoughts, feelings, emotions, desires, likes
and dislikes, there's a constant sort of flow and transformation of purpose of imperatives
some of which conflict, some of which don't affect each other at all, and some of which
harmonize.
And the voices or possible judgments or evaluations of near and distant others are a primary consideration
for an animal as social as we are, and when I say we're social, I mean fundamentally.
We're missing out on probably 90% of what we can be as humans because our social aspect
has been captured and compromised and rebranded and sold back to us in counterfeits and so
on.
It doesn't mean we have to continue playing that game, but in the contexts that we find
ourselves, we will be surrounded by games like this most of the time unless we're very
lucky or unless we intentionally produce a context in which this is not the case, right,
where we can authentically explore what it means to be human and have minds and be able
to use language and have hands and so on.
And when we don't do that together, or if something intrudes and overwhelms our experience
and memory of doing that together, we become disoriented, and then, of course, our purpose
of interior and our motivations and orientations can be captured for the sake of commerce or
mediating in some way, usually very poorly, the pain of isolation that we're likely to
feel in situations like that.
When we become aware of the profound influence of purpose on every moment of our thought
awareness experience, we gain what one might call degrees of liberty that were previously
lost or compromised.
For only when we can direct our attentions and concerns with awareness, trustworthy awareness,
including our intuition, our feelings in our bodies, things that thinking in language
only partially and poorly capture or encompass, then we can choose different species, different
forms of possibility for transformation, for learning, for growth, for development, for
discovery, for wonder, for reverence, for love, for relation.
And our purposes don't merely steer the metaphoric boat of consciousness, they determine what
kind of water it's floating on.
That's how profound the situation really is.
And that water we could think of as forms of awareness, forms of consciousness, capacities
for recognition, understanding, insight, learning, development.
And most of what we inherit is relatively crude in these domains, with the exception
that's sometimes dangerous of highly developed methods and modes, models and so on, that
we may find in academic contexts, or if we are autodidactic, if we're self-teaching,
in our own explorations beyond the book, beyond the classroom, in the living world.
A world that to me appears both to my thought and interiority as deeply in souled, a world
of myriad souls transforming one another over time.
And I don't have to know precisely what I mean by soul to say such a thing.
So I was thinking the other day, of course it's Valentine's Day, and really what's going
on in nature, though every form of creature in every different place has its own kind
of internal calendar, if you will, the sense of when it is the appropriate time to pursue
some goal or activity, behavior, including reproduction.
Many of the creatures in nature where I live now are preparing to reproduce.
And that means that birds and other animals are pairing up, insects are doing their thing,
getting busy, trees are flowering before they produce foliage or needles in some cases.
There's a whole lot of reproductive activity going on.
No accident that Valentine's Day happens in the part of the year when it does.
No accident that Easter, a feast that is associated with our capacity to collect eggs from birds
at that time of year.
You can see how the rebranding took place.
The other night I was thinking about human love in courtship, and of course what I know
of this is deeply colored by my own nature and experience, however modest that may be
compared to others.
In our age of convenience, we've lost access to forms of knowing, behavior, relational
development and insight that are fundamental to our nature as human beings.
And of course, each person embodies this quite uniquely.
Some people will be found, you know, there's some cohort of people that inhabit the statistical
median or something like this, the average.
But even those people, each one of them is unique.
They've uniquely embodied the assets our development has preserved and handed on to new
generations over time.
And I'm reminded that there are some humans that desire eternal life.
I guess they think what they want is for their body and ego to survive forever.
That would suck a lot in lots of ways, but the thing they're overlooking is if you had
a choice what you'd want is a body that was prepared for the world now, because the world
now is not anything like the world of merely 200 years ago.
When there were no cars, no computers, well, let's see, 1820, yeah, no telephones, no radios,
no light bulbs, no electricity.
So just a couple of hundred years ago, this was a different planet, staggeringly different
planet.
And the organisms were still thriving ecstatically, the ecologies, the forests, the oceans, because
we had not yet developed machines with which to process them into profit and commodity.
Now, I often, because of my peculiar circumstances in life, I've had a chance to reflect on and
explore dimensions of human intimacy that might otherwise be off the table.
The reason that they're scarce is complex, the reasons are complex, but the rapid collapse
of relationships into transactions and representations is a primary factor in what most of us will
experience, you know, again, uniquely according to context, place, who we're with, what's
going on, what are we chasing, and you can see the purpose of underpinnings there, right?
