What's going on?
Well, that's a lot of purpose getting enacted, right, contexts and relationships, similar.
But unfortunately, we find ourselves in streams, rivers, gushers of purpose of imperatives,
that we did not really agree to or understand prior to being subjected to them or to being
subscribing to them either, you know, half intentionally or somewhat resistently.
I'm pausing here to say hello to someone I love, and even though this someone is a plant
and probably doesn't understand my language, I think I can speak with it and be heard with
it and hear with my heart instead, with my spirit, my essence.
When I come to this part of the garden, I have little adventures, even while I'm making
videos, talking and learning.
So here for the moment, I have a couple of companions, some Corvids.
The male is particularly adventurous and he likes to have some experiments.
The female, for her part, is much more cautious and hitchhikes on the male's intrepid, adventurous
nature, and that works out well for both of them because he hitchhikes on her reservations.
So together, you can see they might somewhat resemble some of the differences between our
cerebral hemispheres, the male being much more like our right hemisphere and the female
perhaps more like, I actually got that wrong, the male much more like our left hemisphere,
I often confuse these things, and the female perhaps much more like, in her behavior, the
feeling, the feelings and priorities and purposes of the right hemisphere, left side of the
body.
Now watch the birds very closely and you can see that they too are lateralized to some
degree because they use, they'll turn their head to use different eyes for different things.
They'll often check threats with their right eye, left hemisphere, but they'll look for
opportunities or friends with their left eye, and so if they want a moment of warmth, they
might perch so that I am on their left, and then fluff up and enjoy companionship.
Oh, there's a large great blue heron here in a place where I very rarely see one, standing
right in the middle of the path, and it's probably at least three and a half feet tall,
and I'm curious about what it's doing in the middle of the path, for I've never seen
a heron just standing there like that, so tall, it's an astonishing being, so much we
can learn from the animals who are indeed vastly older than our species.
I'm hesitant to proceed, perhaps I'll pause for a moment and return.
The heron is feeding on worms and insects in the grass.
Such an incredible creature.
I feel profoundly lucky and grateful to see it alive.
It had some difficulty swallowing an insect, so there was a lot of head-shaking and neck-twisting.
I think the fish are much slipperier and they don't have legs.
I'm just trying to be respectful because the bird is hunting, and you can see that
my purpose has changed when I saw the bird.
Now I've been thinking a lot about romance and to some degree about sexuality, and I want
to make a clear distinction before I begin.
Some of what I may have to say could sound familiar because there are branches of human
endeavor that focus on human sexuality and the energetic nature, not merely on human
sexuality, but on the energetic nature of sex and reproduction.
There are what we usually think of as spiritual traditions, like Tantra, surprising that in
2021 our machines are still so loud, obnoxious, and devastating, but maybe that surprise is
based on a presumption that something else might have prevailed.
Due to my own circumstances, I've had the great good fortune in some ways of developing
some relationships, many different kinds, but the kinds that I'm concerned with here
are the kinds where there's some kind of mutual eros, eros, attraction, desire.
And the specific kinds of desire that are relevant to sexuality are ancient and profound.
And ordinarily, if I'm in a context where I can be with a woman that I like and I'm
attracted to and I want to, I feel that I want to get to know her with the senses of
my body and my heart, presuming that we're both on a similar page in that regard.
If we're in close proximity, there will be some modest degree of courtship or play, but
if we're close together, it's fairly unlikely, if we both really like each other, that we're
not going to kiss.
And if we kiss, it's unlikely that that will not proceed to caresses and beyond.
And of course, none of the things that I'm saying here are explicitly facts, their tendencies.
And each person or couple will have a unique path in those tendencies.
But most of them, given the opportunity, will soon be rubbing their flowers together and
hopefully having orgasms.
Well, almost certainly for the male.
Maybe the hopefully is more for the female.
It's very surprising the amount of noise here today.
It's very hard on the animals and birds and insects, for all of them are extremely sensitive.
Think of bats with their sensitive hearing or dogs with their sensitive hearing and smell.
To their senses, we are blind.
Dogs don't merely smell what's there.
They smell what's been there and when it was there.
Bats hear shapes floating in the atmosphere.
Of course, they touch those shapes with their voices, a very intimate thing, our voices.
So my point is that given the opportunity and the fact that I'm an adult and relatively
available to becoming enchanted with a woman, most likely what will happen if we're together
is we'll do the beast with two backs thing.
And courtship doesn't necessarily end there, but the field of play transforms dramatically
once actual sex is taking place.
And it becomes very easy for people to rely on the immediate gratification of rubbing
our flowers together and to ignore or leave aside a lot of the other opportunities.
We hear in old stories narratives where lovers either couldn't be together or some choice
they had made prevented them from rubbing their flowers together or rather putting one of
the flowers inside the other and so on and so forth.
And these old stories may seem strange to many of us, but the reason these stories exist
has to do with something very few of us probably have much experience of.
It has to do with the kinds of possibilities, purposes, and opportunities that emerge when
a couple for various reasons decides not to rub their flowers together.
And sometimes this is because they're not proximate, right?
They're not actually together in space time.
But that's not the only reason.
And this might be a little bit of why sexuality acquired in religious contexts, very peculiar
ethical and moral shading.
Now that's a much more complex topic and I won't be able to encompass that one.
What I want to talk about is what happens if for one reason or another two people are
really enchanted with each other, but resist the immediate gratifications of sex and orgasm.
And one of the things that happens is that courtship begins to become a very profound
path with lots of unexpected pleasures, senses, insights, reverence, wonder, awe.
And I don't want anyone to make the mistake of thinking that I have a moral argument here
because as far as the morality of sex in general goes, it's really complicated.
I don't have anything clear to say.
We humans invest our attention and capacities in all kinds of different ways.
Some of them are surely not good.
They blind us or drag us to a lower tier of development and behavior and understanding.
And some of those, when they become addictive, continually drag us like gravity back toward
repeating behaviors that become less and less fulfilling, less and less nourishing, sometimes
often actually overtly toxic as we proceed.
And that's a real problem for just about everybody.
Whether it's food, television, video games, drugs, isolation, sex, dominance, inhibition,
yes, we can become addicted to inhibition.
So what I'm really trying to do, my goal here anyway, is to shine a light in a direction
we're unused to looking at, perhaps partly because of our modernity.
And having had experience of relationships where sexuality was either, how should I talk
about this?
We're actually having sex together was not going on.
And where we weren't playing sexually with each other to produce orgasms.
And certainly all of that's enjoyable, I mean, when it's enjoyable.
I'm less prepared for this topic than I imagined.
Nonetheless, I'm brave enough to proceed.
What I discovered over time is that there are whole forests of faculties that come to
life when we're loving someone deeply and we're not having sex.
Our interiority becomes very profoundly involved and what we might feel as a relatively ordinary
experience of attraction or desire can become inflamed in ways that are unimaginable to
those who've not experienced them.
And so I'm a proponent of courtship because even if I'm in some relationship that may
become physically sexual, I find that there's a broad array of benefits and opportunities
that are inclined to disappear when we begin having physical sex.
And others can develop and it's certainly possible to have deeply fulfilling sexual
and romantic relationships.
Again, I'm not attempting to cast judgment on that.
Rather, I want to point at doorways that are easily overlooked and forgotten to experiences
that not only can hold a candle to the relatively staggering effects of orgasm, they can make
orgasm seem a bit trivial in comparison.
Of course, it's really quite simple to just go for the known stuff, right?
Go for the stuff you know feels good, presuming that sex and orgasm are good feelings and
they're quite conflicted for most of us.
Unfortunately, we've acquired layers and layers of bizarre sort of programming malware, if
you will, from our cultures that often deprive us of opportunities for growth, development,
discovery, creativity, play, ecstasy.
What I wanted to say was that if we're really after ecstasy, we might want to take a long
slow look at what it's like to be in a relationship where both of the partners deeply physically
desire each other, but resist having actual sex and resist the urge to engage in the dance
that results in orgasm.
Not many of my essays are very popular, but there was a magical event some years ago where
in the night I had reached out into the Cognizium of Living Beings of Earth and asked for help.
And it wasn't just because I wanted help, it was because I love them.
I adore them, I live for them.
And the next morning, a local astrologer with a large following named Rob Brezny, a very
fascinating individual, shared one of my essays on the profound opportunities that we've
failed to explore in terms of intimacy.
And I think, I can't remember the title at the moment, but it was something like, there's
something far beyond orgasm.
And over the next few days, that essay got 30,000 views.
So somebody must have found the idea quite interesting.
And I think it's because there's secret knowledge hidden in our bodies, hidden from our conscious
awareness about these matters.
Our bodies know they have other potentials.
And some of them, where we defined ourselves suddenly exposed to these without preparation,
we would certainly be astonished to our core, but we would also find ourselves in a situation
where it would be extremely difficult to think that there aren't such things as souls, whatever
they may be, because our souls would transform in the ecstasy of adoring someone with whom
we're not yet having sex.
Now I don't know what happened historically, and I'm sure just about everything happened
historically, not one or two things.
But it does seem clear that there were people who were aware of these things.
And so, rather than immediately moving towards sex and or marriage, they engaged in long
ecstatic courtships, affairs of the heart that for one reason or another could not be
consummated, or sexually consummated, or where the partners chose another path, a path beyond
orgasm.
Now all of this may sound highly theoretical or even academic, if you've not experienced
it.
But I suspect that if you think back over situations in which you were madly enchanted with someone,
you may find some consonance with my topic and my path within it.
You may find in your memory situations where, particularly when you were quite young, you
were madly in love and sex wasn't even on the table.
And I've had many experiences of this because sexually I was a somewhat late bloomer compared
to my cohort, but I could be madly in love without any idea of sex.
When I was little, I had no ideas about sex, none.
I didn't understand what it was about at all, but I could still become wildly infatuated,
perhaps confusedly, with a girl who seemed to be that shining destination that my soul
longed for.
So I think us moderns were really missing out on most of, well we're missing out on most
of our humanity because we're deeply social and without contexts that invite us into the
exploration and expression of these deep social inheritances that are natural to the animal
we are, however uniquely they may be embodied in different people.
We can't find ourselves and the selves that we know as isolates are an entirely different
kind of animal than the selves that we know in relation.
Noise goes on.
It's funny how the machines interrupt and desynchronize and toxically intrude on our
interiorities and intimacies.
So much more profound for the birds and animals who've long communicated in networks with
voices in real time and now often cannot hear each other.
If any creatures have suffered, well all the creatures have suffered, but I'm particularly
concerned about the cetaceans and the ocean, the dolphins and whales.
Eros is deep and broad and the tiny slice that emerges from physical sexuality is itself
deep and broad.
One moment.
I'm going to pause here for a second.
Too many sirens and horns along with a bunch of other noise.
The slice of our inclinations and faculties that are associated with Eros that is directly
physically sexual is quite narrow compared to the broad range of what's available to
us as human beings.
And unless we have the opportunity to engage in and experience and explore courtship, we're
