And, you know, even in most indigenous religions, as far as I'm aware, is that they exist prior to humans or above humans somehow and they created the world and humans.
And but there is some kind of divine force that I feel like most people have experienced at least a very small piece of, and some people have experienced in a more substantial form.
And it does seem to just keep happening, you know, like throughout history, there it seems to be a thing.
Somehow there is that's the sounds kind of weird to put it that way, but I think that's the only way to describe it. And I think Christianity was was like, kind of recognizing and kind of a very hazy confused attempt to start to to and also recognition that
that is the power which can free us from thrifts because Christianity originally was was like a rebel, like a very small scale, like underground anti Roman Empire.
Right.
It was very different from what Christianity is now.
Yeah, I mean, the religions sort of pose the same problem in the religions that the thrifts are simply the evil.
Right. Yeah, the religions are there to supposed to be the medicine against the evil.
Right.
It takes the this, the religion as it gets structured takes the original inspiration that of like recognizing whatever this divinity thing is, or love and more and more realizing it's like somehow love, just the as a now not directed but just like a feeling
of a field of love that one can tap into some people that discovered that and then it got clamped down by the religious structure that converted into a thrift and kind of neutered its effect as a result.
Yes, I just want to say about this emergent thing because that was for me that really like changed my relation to this really profoundly.
And if it's top down, it's like, oh, you're you're submitting to an authority. And then it kind of it loses the whole freedom aspect because it just becomes another top down thrift or, you know, colonizing situation.
But it's actually emergent in that it's a thing that has emerged as a maybe as a thrift you could say I don't know.
We're running out. Okay, cool. Well, we have a great jumping off point.
Yes, so hold that thought it's emergent.
I'll send you a new link shortly.
Sounds good.
