Hello.
Hello, Luca.
I'm here with my friend Luca Raid.
Is that how you say your last name?
It depends where we are. Raid in the U.S.
but rather would be the technical Dutch conversation.
Excellent. Thank you.
And we're just going to.
We've had some astonishing conversations historically.
And I'm really looking forward to just getting a little bit into
each other's minds here today and some of the things that
fascinate us.
Yeah, same here.
Thanks for having me.
My pleasure.
Yeah, so we're going to explore a little bit about language,
humans, sociology, and maybe we'll get into some other
philosophical and or spiritual topics.
Tell me a little bit about your history, a little bit about your
childhood, your interest as a kid, how those developed into your
adolescence, some young adulthood.
Yeah.
Well, I am from five cultures, all five of which failed to
properly grasp me into themselves and they all interfered with
each other.
So that gave me both the curse and the blessing of being
cultureless as I entered adulthood.
So that both enabled me to kind of see between the cracks and
feel a bit more deeply into what was happening inside of me and
around me.
And I guess the freedom, which I'm increasingly appreciating to
build my own home and construct my own culture.
So my dad is Dutch from middle class Dutch.
And my mother is Austrian from a minor aristocracy stretching
back to Italy.
We have paintings of very emotionless looking ancestors on the
wall looking very repressed.
So there's a very strong kind of the really repressive European,
the repressive strain of European culture has entered me through
that.
But my grandmother on my mom's side was American.
So there was a race of American influence there.
And then there are all these interferences start happening.
So my grandfather on my mom's side was a diplomat.
So my mom grew up in Iran and India and, you know,
culture is coming in.
And my uncle was doing psychedelics in Goa.
So there were, there were all these things coming in already,
like kind of starting to break the top down ancestral structure
that otherwise would have just kept propagating.
And then in me, I did my high school in Brazil.
My dad was also a diplomat.
So a lot of my close friends were Brazilian.
So there was a lot of the kind of chiller Latin culture.
And my parents lived in the US in New York for four years right
before I was born.
And that really, my mom became a dancer there.
Like she'd never really done dancing before.
And by the end she was doing choreographies.
My dad also loosened up a bit.
So there are all these cultures kind of intertwining and they all
tried in different ways to claim me for their own, so to say.
And my, my behavioral body adopted pieces of each of these.
But yeah, they all interfered.
And it's not that they were different, but there was like
opposition, you know, one would have a different behavioral
norm from the other.
And then that would play itself out like in my body and in my,
like literally moment to moment as I was interacting with people.
And so yeah, that's that kind of gestated.
And I didn't really kind of crystallize until I got to college
and in the US and America's frontier openness, so to say,
messed with my, with my mind in a good way and created the space
for things to open up.
And I tried psychedelics and met people who are very, you know,
explorative, shall we say, of their own existences.
And that's the moment when the little breakages that had happened
throughout my childhood and growing up crystallized into some
more permanent opening into which I could enter and become,
I guess, the explorative, wisp, amoeba thing that is that I am now become.
What were some of the seminal events that you remember in your teen
life as yours first getting, you know, I don't know when your
academic interests began or how they began, but anything significant
in your life history that you feel catalyzed your concerns and
your fascination for philosophical, linguistic and spiritual matters?
Yeah, I mean, what immediately pops out the most prominent one,
which is I discovered the science fiction author Peter F. Hamilton.
I don't know if you've heard of him.
No, I haven't.
I'm a science fiction, but I haven't read him.
Highly recommended.
Yeah, really amazing.
Even now I still recently read a new book of his and it's still
really, really gripped me.
And that what that did to me is it was it was a 500 year future 500 years.
And there was a timeline trajectory of how that future had developed
from the current day.
And it felt like the inevitable progression of how the world would go.
Obviously now I don't feel that anymore because my I've developed my thoughts,
but as a teen, it totally reshaped my idea for my alright,
the world will stay pretty much as it is with some, you know,
we'll have flying cars or something.
I didn't have exposure to really grand ideas.
And then when I read that, I was like, oh, shit, like we maybe we would,
you know, genetically engineer ourselves to become in symbiosis with the
biological world around us.
And, you know, traveling to space.
I mean, that's obviously an obvious one, but in the particular way,
the nuanced way that he was describing it in this book.
And then there were also like spirits from the dead coming back and all kinds
of things that more than anything else just broke the linear thread that I had
of what the future could be that was unconsciously adopted from the world
around me.
And even though the trajectory that Peter of Hamilton presents is not a
realistic path necessarily.
Just having a thread that's like so sideways from the main one also opens
this entire space.
So that was I had like a weekend in which I was barely sleeping just like,
oh my God, oh my God, one of those, one of those kinds of weekends.
Yeah.
And were you reading what other authors influence to you?
Well, a lot.
So there's no I could give a comprehensive list, but just some that kind of
adjacent perhaps to Peter of Hamilton.
I'm Rand actually with Atlas shrugged, not necessarily her philosophy,
like I don't necessarily bind to her philosophy as a whole.
But Atlas shrugged also had this kind of influence where it broke the institutional
narratives of how reality is, right?
As humans were just Cods basically in this big civilizational infrastructure.
And that's how it is.
And there's a very top down flow of authority and legitimacy.
And so that was how I grew up and my parents and everyone around me like was
unconsciously embedded in that.
And I'm Rand helps me break that and be like, oh, we're actually.
Well, at the time I was thinking we're we're human beings and now I'm more
thinking we're organisms.
So it's even a layer below just human beings or alive organisms as we are
who are part of a civilization, but we're not dictated by the civilization.
And that that breakage is create the amount of space that that creates is
absolutely incredible.
Internally, like not just in action, but also just in one's perceptual
experience of the world and how language begins to change.
How social relations become like thicker and more meaningful.
Because they themselves are the full thing rather than being part of this
huge system.
So yeah, all kinds of things started changing about what was your age then.
I think Peter Hamilton was around 13 that I first started reading it.
And then the yeah, 1415 like more and more influences started coming in.
Did you have any non ordinary experiences during your childhood or
adolescence that stand out to you.
Define non ordinary experiences.
Yeah, it can be difficult.
Yeah, any unusual dreaming experiences or perhaps a significant illness accident
or injury or something that left you with questions about spirituality,
religion, before life, after death, any events that you recall.
So this could be as simple as a very unusual dream.
Yeah, well, two dreams come to mind.
One is not so much a dream, but like occurring states during kind of
pre sleep.
In which my, I guess my proprioceptive model got super warped.
So suddenly my arm would be like the size of the universe and the rest of
my body like a dot and then it would morph.
It was like in 5D and the three dimensional world was like it was embedded
in five dimensions basically.
I don't really know how to describe it.
And your age.
I mean, I had that like kind of throughout, you know, like it wasn't like a
single event, but I guess from what I remember it started.
Definitely after 13, like probably 14 or 15.
And these are experiences that happen between being awake and being asleep
generally.
Yeah, yeah.
And sometimes in dreams as well to some extent, but in dreams they were,
they weren't as as encompassing as in the, in the awake to sleep and
literally it's not like I could still feel my leg and also feel that my leg
had changed proportions.
It's like my actual leg had was changed in proportions.
I didn't have a normal sense of my body left except this weird warping.
And actually I think that's one of the reasons that topology really gripped
me.
And that was the area in math that I was, that I developed the most in when I
was in college because that's very much your shifting dimensions in beyond
three dimensions.
You're shifting in all kinds of dimensions, different spatial systems.
So I think the connection there is and not just topology also just general
thinking about the world of which topology is maybe the foundation in some
in some sense.
Yes, this is a central topic for me because I think we're
most of us are pretty deeply scripted to generalize or take what I call the
worst common denominator when we're thinking about a topic or, you know,
anything from film to people in general to some cohort of people.
Often we are, we make, we can make some very clumsy generalizations.
And I always like to remember that humans are a topology.
I may want to point out something about the valleys, you know, but there's
always going to be mountains too, right?
Regardless of whether we place the, we place the value on the valleys, you
know, whether we say the low terrain is good or the high terrain is good.
Either way.
Yeah.
And then even within, let's say you're on the peak and you're talking about it,
