Hello everybody. Welcome. I'm walking in the garden as I often am. One of my favorite
places to be. I was thinking a bit about lucid waking, and sometimes when I think, it's
very profound to be able to think as a writer. Because now, as a writer, as adults, we can
have some difficulty finding a venue where our imagination can play and flow and become
florid, flower. And since I haven't been writing a whole bunch for a while, I kind of stopped
thinking as a writer, may. Now, of course, you don't have to be a writer to think like a writer might.
In fact, you don't have to write at all. But you can imagine stories, adventures, situations, while
you're awake, that are a little bit like dreaming. Or rather, this form of imagining, it creates a
venue. And one of the things that can destroy a venue for imagination is too strong a presence of
critical thought. In fact, one of the primary transformations of awareness that happens between
dreaming and waking mind is the introduction of critical thought. And critical thought isn't
merely critical. It's declarative about identity. That is a piece of wood. This is a garden. This is my
voice. This is the path. That is the sky. There is the sun. That is the tree. There is the bird. This room
I'm awakening in is the same room I went to sleep in. And is continuous in time and is familiar, has
memories associated with it as a place in our life, all these things. And many other things,
comparisons, qualitative evaluations, quantitative evaluations. And all of this activity is fairly
formal. It's fairly explicit. And what that does when our awareness is doing that is it essentially
evicts imagination. It sort of says to, well, it doesn't say anything, but it implies to imagination. First
of all, you're unnecessary. Secondly, you're superfluous. You have nothing to add. Because that's
either a brick or it's not a brick. This is weird sort of facticity about waking consciousness. And as we
grow older, first, slowly, and then very rapidly, and then deeper and deeper, our imagination is evicted
from our common waking experience. And last, of course, you know, we find ways to introduce it. But even when
we introduce it, we're introducing it in the kingdom of the critical voice, the waking mind. So it can be
difficult for our imagination to flourish and find freedom to be expressed in our waking life. And many
people are fascinated, perhaps, rightly so, with the experiences, the incredible array of experiences that
are available to us when we're in a state that we might call lucid dreaming. And essentially, what's
been by this is just that we are in the dreaming mind. And in the dreaming mind, we either become aware that
we're dreaming, or the dream transforms in the same way that it would if we were aware that we are dreaming,
without us being formally aware that we are dreaming. So these are two aspects of the lucid dreaming
experiences, or these are ways of thinking about these experiences anyway. And so lucid dreaming is a wonderful
and amazing thing to practice. Surely, there are some people who have troubling experiences in lucid dreaming,
too. But many people report ecstatic, blissful, astonishing experiences of incredible vitality, and
vividness, as if the colors themselves are alive and are beings and are something we don't even have a
word for in English, which is a living source of stimuli that transforms you, right, like sunlight
does, except it's a kind of intelligence and it's a kind of emotionality. And so in dreaming, our
experience can have all these astonishing qualities that we ordinarily don't experience while awake with
some exceptions. And it's interesting to me that there's the two in my, in my, you know, somewhat
limited, but nonetheless, remembered experiences of lucid dreaming. It's very common, of course, you
know. So there's a thing that I call a grunge in dreaming. It's a neologism, a word I made up. And a
grunge is a situation in dreaming where the faculties of our waking mind begin to very gently, at first
intrude on the dreaming experience. I don't know why I have this example that I always use. Perhaps I
should create a new one. So here's the grunge. The grunge is a sort of branching and it has three
common paths that it develops into. And the first path is, well, first of all, let me explain that
generally speaking, and there are exceptions, you don't have to have an actual question for
there to be a grunge. But the dreaming mind, into the dreaming context, there's another layer of
awareness intrudes for a moment. And there may be a question. For example, let's say I'm dreaming that
I see a bird and it's flying upside down. The grunge, that could be a grunge if
an aspect of critical awareness becomes involved and says something like, why is the bird flying
upside down? Or that I just feel the question. Hmm, something's not quite right about that bird.
Usually, see in dreaming, it can be very gentle. It isn't always, hey, that's not supposed to happen.
It's more like, huh, there's something unusual about that thing I'm seeing or wondering. And then
that slowly transforms into a more focused concern. And by the way, this process
illustrates what we can think of as the collapsing, the beginning of the collapse of the dream
universe into the thinking, identifying waking mind. So we may start out just with curiosity.
That bird's very unusual. It's not yet clear that birds don't fly upside down because we're
still dreaming. So we might just first notice, oh, that's unusual. And then we might feel
some kind of an interest in the unusualness for a moment. And this is again, the process of,
it's as if an aspect of the dream within the manifold of the dream, an aspect is collapsing,
slowly flowing into and toward concrete identity and polarities and accounting and
things much more common in our waking experience.
So we may encounter some anomaly in a dream, although it's not necessary to encounter one
to have this concern. Sometimes the awareness that one is dreaming just spontaneously arises.
I'm dreaming. Oh.
So a grudge begins with either the possibility of the transformation of awareness in the dream
to include either the formal awareness in one's dream, one thinks, oh, I am dreaming.
Or something like this, one becomes aware that one is dreaming, whether or not there's language
associated with it is an entirely different question. And it begins with a feeling.
All right, begins with a feeling. So the grudge has three outcomes and one of them,
let's say I saw something anomalous. I remember once in a dream on a bush outside a house,
there were people and I wanted to visit. I saw a yellow jacket, right, the wasp. And it was like
the size of a golden retriever and it was sitting on top of this bush. And that was the grudge.
In that case, the yellow jacket just seemed to be much more fascinating than useful. Its size
expressed how interesting it was, right? So instead of me thinking something like,
or feeling thinking something like, that's not supposed to be big. That's too big. What is that?
Why is that so big? I just felt and thought, oh, that's really interesting, right? It's just,
you see how the dream maintains the generality? It doesn't decide what's going on or what should
be or what shouldn't be. In this case, it just notices, oh, that's fascinating. What an astonishing
phenomenon without thinking about naming it or, or anything. And this is really profound
and beautiful because we always have this capacity of consciousness. It's just that most of the time
it's shut down. The classic example that I use for a grudge explanation is,
suppose I'm running, I find myself running through a castle. I know that a monster is chasing me.
And I turn around and I can see there's like a little six inch tall pink tyrannosaurus that
looks really furious and it's chasing me. And then for a moment, I wonder, wait a minute,
why am I in a castle? Or how could it be that a small pink tyrannosaurus rex is chasing me
in a castle or something of this nature? Now, this is a moment where a grudge happens. And
the three outcomes are one, essentially the dream calms you down or transforms in such a way that
your attention is redirected away from that concern. And then you keep dreaming. And one of the ways
it can do this is it will quickly improvise a historical scenario that resulted in this.
And once you see that there is a scenario that resulted in this, you just go on dreaming.
The concern and the sort of conflict dissolves back into the flow of the dreaming.
And so you go on with whatever you may have been up to. So that's one path. And I find it really
interesting that the dream can backfill histories. Now, of course, it's not clear that time is linear
in dreaming. In fact, I suggest time has all kinds of dimensions in dreaming that are missing from
our common awareness of linear time or our experience in what we imagine to be linear time.
It's just really interesting that the dream can almost the dreaming mind or dreaming awareness
can instantly improvise a scenario that satisfies the concern. It's like a key fitting into a lock
almost, right? Oh, you're here because this happened and before that happened, there was this
and you were going here and then these two things occurred and that led to blah, blah, blah. Now,
it doesn't do that in language. It just does it by manipulating memory in such a way that it says
if you have a memory of the sequence that led up to the strange situation in which you had the
question that led to the grudge, right? So it can directly manipulate memory. This is really important.
Right? It can produce in memory
histories and other things, schemas that, how should I put this?
It can produce schemas of meaning, identity, relation, situation that are ordinarily
very uncommon in our waking world experience or
they're turned down so low, right? Like the volume knob is turned down to just barely present.
And so we don't have these experiences and abilities and understandings of the dimensionality
of identity and time and existence and being and awareness and all of this while we're awake.
And we may not have conscious experience of them while we're dreaming
in that we can tell we're having the experience and of course this is part of what lucid dreaming
is about. But they're present, right? So new forms of dimensionality
naturally emerge from our dreaming experience so that we feel the spirit or character or
essences of things in precedence to knowing what they are or what they're supposed to be
or any of that kind of stuff. Isn't that beautiful? Isn't that important? Isn't that amazing?
Think of the implications of this, right? That while we're awake, I don't know,
80% of the faculties of our minds are shut down and compressed into very utilitarian modes.
And it can be extremely difficult to reintroduce what I think of as their natural dimensionality
and flexibility potential because the iron grip of waking consciousness can be either really severe
or if there's a lot of conflict and like rationalist, rationally, or if there's a
lot of conflict it can be insane, right? It just does sort of loopy and coherent things
very forcefully all the time, right? And all kinds of different. It can collapse into different
forms but it tends to stay collapsed. This waking consciousness of identity, relation, meaning
felt sense of the spirit or character of beings and moments and places.
The flavor of existence can get lost in the strange courtroom-like structured narrative
of waking consciousness. And so our imagination is trapped outside of it mostly. There are
exceptions. So back to the grants just to finish this up. One branch is the dream resolves
the imposition of the possibility of collapse toward waking,
sometimes by providing, by transforming memory to produce figures that have the shape quality
sufficient to neutralize the aspect of awareness that was beginning to become
critical. That's not exactly the right word. Denotative, right? The denotative aspect of
consciousness. The one that like a god actually, like as if we have a little god inside us,
tells us what things are, what they're for, what's supposed to be and not supposed to be,
what the numbers are, this kind of stuff. And you see how this is very formally,
representationally structured. Whereas what's going on in the dream
is a very different kind of thing. But let's finish the grudge branch situation.
So branch one is you keep dreaming. It resolves the sort of mini-crisis is neutralized.
Branch two is the beginning of the formation of structure and what we might refer to as the dreaming
manifold, right? Starts to form up the structure. Hey, that's not supposed to be or wait, that
doesn't make sense or why is it that one of my shoes is green and the other one is red?
Like it may start with a question but it can also start with a feeling. In the second branch,
this collapse towards structure proceeds and it becomes kind of pointy, right? It builds a point
and it's a point in thought. It's a point in awareness. It's a pointy aspect of awareness
and that pointy aspect begins to penetrate the manifold that it is itself emerging from,
right? As if the dream were like a strange multi-soap bubble with little kinds of bubbles
inside and so on and so forth. And it's floating, you know, occasionally one bubble pops and three
more emerge and we are this bubble in dreaming. And then one aspect inside the multi-bubble starts to
acquire static structure and you can see how if a part of a bubble begins to become a static
structure, the bubble can't continue to bubble. So the dream produces an element or actually
one could think of it different ways and should think of it in different ways.
It's like the intrusion of the waking mind. The waking mind is sort of poking a finger
into the dreaming universe just often very gently at first, though not always.
And the dreaming flow substance begins to form into a structured element within the manifold.
And in case two, that element continues to acquire structure and sort of different kinds of pointiness
and that eventually results in it piercing the manifold in such a way that the whole thing
collapses and we wake up. And we wake up usually with the, you know, if we can, if we remember
and ordinarily we may, depending on how our memory is working, we may only remember that
the last few dreams or the last dream before we awoke or maybe even just scenes from that dream.
And sometimes we can awaken and be in a sort of twilight state where we're mostly awake
but there are still pulses and flows of dreaming surfacing in consciousness.
And this is a very interesting thing here. It's actually part of what I hope to speak about.
So branch two is the introduction of waking mind like awareness
collapses the dreaming manifold. And these are just toys. I'm not saying this is how it is.
These are perspectives that I've come to entertain over my own explorations of dreaming
and waking and what the relationship is there. What's all this about?
This is really my question. And that's a much weirder thing to try to answer.
So we'll stay on the grunge. The third branch is that
the partial intrusion of structure and the structure can come in different ways, right?
It can be a question, but it could also be, for example, that we're dreaming in the room
in which we are dreaming. So what I mean is in the dream we are in the same place that our body
actually is. And this can cause the transformation and a variety of other astonishing transformations.
In my experience anyway, when I have a dream that's in the room that's taking place in a
dream version of the room I'm in, there's something unusual going on and very important to
distinguish from other kinds of dreaming scenarios and ask questions about.
So it's not always a question. It's a feeling in the dreaming environment.
And a transformation of awareness from something like pure participation
to, what should we call it, determinative activity.
So in the third branch what happens essentially is
somehow the waking mind and the dreaming mind, they get kind of spirally mixed together in the
flow of dreaming. As if the dreaming mind puts a spin on the pointy thing. And now that it's spinning
in, you know, in this toy idea, it doesn't collapse the bubble and we become aware that
we're dreaming. And that awareness can either be formal in the sense that we essentially have
something like a thought, again probably not in language, I'm dreaming. Now sometimes right
after noticing that, that just collapses the bubble and people wake up. But other times it doesn't.
And then astonishing phenomena take place. Now the dream gets like super dimensionality.
It had extra dimensionality as a regular dream, but once we become lucid it has new degrees of
liberty that we can explore and embody because actually we're exploring being a dream, right,
becoming a dream. Yes, yes, our body is still on the bed or the couch or whatever, of course.
But we are being a dream. And so we fall asleep and when we don't have to support the incredible
energetic needs of the waking moving body, right, we can reduce the funding, so to speak, to all of
that. And that actually helps the body, right, because the pace of everything slows down and
the effort slows down. Our organs can rest and regenerate and our muscles and bones and
fascia and mitochondria can all do astonishing things, including making poops,
which is definitely something that's happening while we're asleep and probably has some impact on
our dreaming. Different topic though, so I'll stay with the grunge. There's kind of classic
things that happen when people are lucid dreaming. And one of them is flight and sometimes it's
spontaneous, right. And again, these processes, they can be more or less in a kind of layer
of consciousness that's engaged in the experience, you know, the waking layer that can know things
and think things and have a plan and try things, right, the subjective perceiver in a way,
right, who is both in an experience, but coming at the experience from outside it, right.
And so sometimes we might just begin flying. Other times we may, I've heard people say they
