And even it's true technologies, coders. They have a license to dream, but I'm going to stay mostly
with the arts. And part of their dreaming, the sort of payoff is that they involve the audience
in dreaming while the audience is awake. And this can can be a very beautiful and noble endeavor
to dream together in a meaningful way while we're awake and to have some of the dimensionality
and the deep potential for participation in being, right, rather than observation of being.
And you know, it's funny because to even speak of such things begins to invoke them, right?
This is another path to making the door, to wonder about such matters deeply and passionately,
or to pursue them, hopefully somewhat playfully, in the same way that our dreaming is playful,
though it isn't only playful. This is another way of making the door.
So in the dreaming branch, the first position is keep dreaming. The second is collapse into waking.
The third is the sudden acquisition of new degrees of liberty in awareness.
The mixture, the mating, the gentle mating of an aspect of our waking minds with the dreaming manifold.
And so similarly, the third aspect of a waking world branch is successfully traversing the first two.
Although I guess, wow, now that I think about it, perhaps I got this wrong.
So branch one in the waking world is the question or feeling or fascination,
but some things astonishing here, right? Some things very novel and maybe magical,
and we're not sure what it is, right? We can't just say, oh, it's just this, or we refuse to.
I guess the second position, if it's actually a polarity, the second position is the waking world
just collapses into dreaming. Now, that position can be really strange. I've experienced that.
And usually what happens for me in this way is, for some reason, I become extremely
sleepy very suddenly. And the moment I lie down, I'm engaged in this incredible vision
of like wild significance and beauty and often intelligence. And by intelligence, I mean,
it's teaching me things. So maybe this is the second branch here, right? Because in dreaming,
the second branch collapses to waking. So in waking, the second branch just collapses into dreaming,
or even visionary experience. And maybe that can happen without us being asleep.
I've certainly had experiences like that too, or at least that resemble that quality.
But the third branch is, in waking,
the intelligence and creative reintroduction of
imaginal intelligence and the dimensionalities that disappear from our sensing and thought and
experience most of the time when we're awake. The extra domains of identity and meaning and
connotation. Now, of course, if something like this goes wrong, you can get
various features of psychosis or mental illness.
Because some of those extra dimensions can be recaptured by the waking mind. And then we
have a real problem, especially if it's trying to evict them.
So in that case, right, there's ways for this process to go sideways. Sometimes it does.
It's certainly more likely to do so under stress. Or if we feel threatened, which of course,
I guess, is a kind of stress, or trapped, or injured, or we're sick, or we've suffered the
kinds of trauma that often produce long-term transformations of our waking world minds.
And even these things can teach us about all kinds of things about the nature of our minds
and awareness and the possibilities of the possibilities for waking lucidity.
Now, often the term lucidity isn't used in the way I'm using it. To be lucid means to be
in a clear, coherent state of mind. Which could be described as you are properly dominated by the
non-imaginal aspects of rational thought, conception, speech, behavior, motivation,
fear, and so on. Well, that's almost the description of a prison, especially for the imagination.
And I think we could do with a bit of a jailbreak there, most of us, I certainly can.
So I'm very interested in all these matters.
I want to understand, it's very clear to me that our relationships with language and knowledge
and culture and society are very dangerous in all kinds of ways. And they capture and evict
aspects of our interiority that life becomes miserable without them. And to be a human being
is very challenging in a variety of unusual ways for animals, as well as including many of the
usual problems for animals. I mean, the weird thing about us is we mostly invent our own predators,
right? So that's a pretty weird thing for an animal to do. It's eradicated most of the things that
can predate on it. And then it pretty much becomes its own predator through institutions,
societies, war, poverty, wrecking the environment, and so on. That's a bad dream.
And if we're going to wake up from that dream, which I would really love, any degree of movement
in that direction would be a staggering moment of victory and worthy of celebration.
We need our imagination. And so we need to help each other learn and discover
and recover these faculties that were always natural to our people. But over
the span of the evolution of the minds most of us are saddled with today,
many of the faculties got evicted, or they got counterfeited, or they got represented,
or they became systematized. And in all of those cases, the sort of living brightness
of our imagination, our wonder, our capacity for direct participation in being and time
and relation and circumstance, deeply profound, direct participation,
what Owen Barfield calls original participation, I think.
It's been largely amputated. And so that makes us really vulnerable to anything that mimics it,
right, to anything that presents with an aspect that resembles what we've lost and are hungry for.
And unfortunately, because all of this is happening in awareness and in thought,
we cannot see it. It is very, very difficult to look at it. In order to see it, one has to
somehow acquire a position beyond it. Interestingly, dreaming is one of those positions. It's beyond
it, and it can include it. And lucid dreaming is a fascinating thing worth exploring, though
I think we should be very careful about developing strongly believed theories of what lucid dreaming
is. I think we should be cautious about that. But lucid waking is really much more important
because it's over here that we're starving. Over there, we're mostly nourished.
And it's also very important to recognize the nature of the relationship, to explore and
gain deeper understanding of the nature of the relationship between dreaming and memory.
Because, trust me when I tell you, these are like the inside and the outside of an octopus, right?
You don't see the inside, but the outside's an expression of the inside. And so too, with all
things. And the inside can be an expression of something truly inconceivable. And getting a taste
of that is like drinking from the fountain. Our own soul is a little droplet of having an adventure
far away in embodied existence.
I'm sure I'll think of many more things I wanted to share, but for now,
I wish you beautiful dreaming and hope that you may, on purpose or accidentally,
form the door that opens from dreaming into waking world experience in a way that's gentle
and beautiful, intelligent, creative, inspiring, reassuring, and profound.
Perhaps we can open it together. Thank you for joining me. May your ways be bright and beautiful.
