tried to convince other people in the dream that this was a dream and they can do amazing things.
Usually that project tends to fail. I haven't heard of it succeeding.
But all kinds of amazing adventures can happen when waking consciousness is mixed with dreaming
consciousness in such a way that it doesn't dominate it, they enhance each other. That's an
incredibly important thing right there. That's what we actually need to be experiencing while we
are awake. But it's as if there was an accident a long time ago, kingdoms clashed, one fell into
the underworld, the other dominated the waking world in a very confused way, thinking that
its twin was its enemy, even though its twin is really its origin.
And what I mean by that is that the capacity for us to have waking minds and critical awareness
and denotative thought and to evict imagination from our waking experience is actually,
big reveal here. Those are structure, over structured functions of imagination.
Without imagination, you can't do any of those things. And by the way, machines don't have
imagination. They can't participate in information. The way that we must, we don't have another,
there's no other way of being. We participate in denotative consciousness and waking consciousness,
waking awareness and thought and language and so on, representational consciousness.
These are all structured, over structured figments of
years of dreaming. And without our imagination, they don't work, they do nothing. They don't work
at all. They don't do anything. Without imagining something, the idea that this is a bird or that
is a tree or I am a hero or I am a fool or I am a man or anything, right? These, one moment.
One moment.
These tokens are meaningless unless they are
imbued with the living, flowing awareness that they originate from, which is imagination.
Now, it's weird that we could form a tool with imagination that locks most of imagination out,
but that's what rationality does. That's what mathematics is, in a way. Now, weirdly, you have
to be really imaginative to produce tools like these or to even to use them. They require
imagination to be meaningful. No imagination, those symbols on the page, meaningless.
So, in our waking experience, faculties and assets of the imaginal mind and the dreaming
mind become standing structures in the same way that and dominate the space in the same way that
if I go to downtown, right, there are huge skyscrapers, there are buildings everywhere,
there's no living space. It's all paved. It's all like hard, permanent, continuous structure.
So, our waking mind is the product of the history
of the production in memory of something like tokens, structured
schemas of identity, meaning, value, number, quality. They're like little containers, right?
They can preserve things over time.
And the containers have astonishing properties, most of which we're unaware of because we don't
examine them this way usually. We're never trained to, and unless we're very imaginative and curious,
there's no way we'll stumble across this.
These containers sacrifice dimensionality for liability, right? And they are part of the
stock in trade of the representational overcultures that our human beingness is subject to,
right, and has to interact with usually. Or, I mean, you know, even if we run away,
we're still interacting with it, right? It's still there, still around us, still
affecting the other people and the animals and the world and the plants and all of this.
So, over time, layers and layers of structure were set down and we inherit this weird
sort of mishmash of often conflicting structures and thinking
as we grow up in the cultures and with the languages we're imprinted with.
So, the grunge either continues the dream, collapses into waking, or becomes lucid.
And the reason that I'm introducing this topic, and, you know, thank you for bearing with my very
long introduction, is that awareness is fundamentally gronchy, right? It's like,
yes, most of us always take branch two before things get even slightly,
how to put it, more flexible, right? Before things start to get extra dimensionality
in our experience. Imagine, for example, that I hear each of my footfalls as a musical note.
In a dream, no problem. Now, my dreaming mind, I think, was involved in producing that example,
by the way. So, what I just did there was a little bit gronchy, right? But instead of
introducing the waking minds modes into the dreaming context, I'm introducing the dreaming
minds modes into the waking context. And this can become really fascinating and adventurous
and wonderful, entertaining, ecstatic, educational. It can generate insights that are otherwise
impossible to achieve. Most of the time with our waking minds, many of us, not all of us,
some of us are wildly creative or imaginative. Most of the times with our, the time with our
waking minds, we're just kind of plotting through the structured terrain. The same way we might,
if we were on some kind of chore in a city, you know, drive to this spot, pick this up,
bring it here, pick that up here, take it there. This is sort of how a lot of waking consciousness
proceeds. And it's dead inside, right? And this is why people are suffocating, even though they
may have the necessities of life, they're starving moment to moment for imaginal
nourishment for a venue where the imagination can play all of the astonishing roles,
including the actual creation of experiential universes out, you know, out of thin air
while we're awake. And people may have non-ordinary experiences. Now, again, some people are sort of
half dreaming all the time, I'm sure, right? But we don't tend to give them a lot of
authorization. We don't, we don't give them a lot of airplay most of the time. And there are
a few venues in which that would seem appropriate. But one of them is writing, right? If people can
dream up something really amazing and write it or make a film out of it. And you can see that
both of those things resemble dreams, right? I mean, what are we watching on TV? Well, we're not
watching what we're actually watching, because what we're actually watching is being produced on
purpose. And there's cameras in the room that we can't see and lighting equipment and the sets are
only half built. And there's lots of interesting things to notice here, because in dreaming,
the sets aren't complete. They don't have to be complete. They only have to be relatively complete
in the place of presence of our awareness in the dream, right? Now, I'm not saying they're
like TV sets or movie sets. But they do have this quality of being surrounded by incompleteness.
And that's also really interesting, because denotative awareness pretends to completeness.
Once I know that's a tree, I know what that is.
Well, hopefully you can see that not only is that not true, so it's actually a lie.
The only what-ness that knowing that that's a tree really does, on its own,
is it tells us something about what category the phenomenon belongs to.
But the urge to determine the category tends to inhibit both imagination and relation.
Now, we may have discovered what we think trees are and do and what we think we can do and not do
with them. We may think we know what that is. And the most common thing for waking consciousness to do
is turn things and beings into either they're a commodity or they're a threat or they're an
opportunity or you can ignore them and go on with whatever kind of distracted nonsense that we were
that we were distracting ourselves with. This is a lot of waking consciousness. Now,
of course, it can do other cool things like engineering and planning things and mapping
them and analyzing them. Yes, this layer has useful features unless they dominate everything
else and mostly excluded, in which case we have a standing crisis and our life becomes miserable inside.
So,
our waking experience is grouchy in the sense that we don't have to pick branch two, right?
Now, branch one is a little weird because,
ah, now I see, yeah. So, first of all, I'm improvising here and I've never spoken of waking
world grouchiness before or even thought about it. So, I think that there's a waking world analog
that's sort of the polar opposite of
the concern in the dream about why something's weird, right? The bird is flying backwards,
ordinarily fine, introduce a little bit of waking world critical thought, suddenly we have a problem.
So, I think there's not just a waking world polarity of that,
but a number of different ones, the same way there are a number of different
kinds of concerns that can lead to a grouch and a dream. And there's all kinds of
different ways that a feeling can form that accomplishes the sort of opposite of lucid dreaming,
which is the intrusion of dreaming consciousness and awareness and forms
and participation into waking consciousness. And what I mean by participation is the incredible
intimacy that is felt when one is the world. The world is me, right? And the idea that I had
was, that sparked all this, was, I was just a writerly thought that someone asks me,
where are you going? And I say, I'm going to the place where places are beings.
This was my writerly thought that launched this whole discussion.
For most of us,
places aren't beings. And we may feel some of the beingness and participation of place.
But if the dreaming mind could intrude in the right kind of way to our waking consciousness,
we would have the feeling that's often very subtle in the dream that, oh, all of this is me.
This is, all of this is me. This is inside me. And I am inside all of this right now,
the felt sense of that, not the thought. And there are many paths to,
there are many ways we can recover this capacity, which we all had as children.
Right? We all started, we started out with this, right? Something happened to it.
There are many ways we can recover this.
And one of the senses is fascination. If I suddenly become really fascinated with a flower,
the shape and nature of my awareness, it transforms.
Or a bird, or this place, or this moment of the day, right? Or the strange.
What if I suddenly became aware that when I'm dreaming, I don't feel gravity?
This is grouchy, right? When I'm dreaming, I don't feel gravity. I don't feel the weight of my body
on my footsteps. In fact, I don't recall feeling my footsteps. So there have been strange
ways of moving in dreams that are very interesting to me, and I think probably very old
in Earth's, you know, life lineages. So there's different ways to introduce concern.
And one of the promises of romantic love is the constant reintroduction of something deeply
resembling the intimate felt sense of, I am more than me, right? And we are one.
So I am in you, and you are in me. And we go together, and that transforms everything,
because we are together, right? The meaning of the tree is much less declarative when me and my
beloved adore it together, and wonder, and ask questions, and play, right? So there's all kinds
of ways to become, to sort of, how should we put it, evoke or invoke the door, the door through which
aspects of our dreaming intelligences can emerge meaningfully into consciousness.
And it won't mean we won't be able to do ordinary things or negotiate physical reality.
It will mean that our felt sense of being in physical reality will be vastly richer in ways
that are actually really hard to imagine if you've not directly experienced them,
and extremely difficult to fit into any kind of ordinary language, though some forms of poetry
or music evoke these senses that, again, while we're awake are mostly inhibited. So I'm very
interested in the idea of lucid waking, and the capacity to have a writerly ideas,
I have many little sort of dream-like visions of the beginnings of a story in my mind.
But today, when I just imagined, you know, I am going to the place where the places are being,
that's my answer to where are you going, I immediately was aware that that answer comes
from something deep inside me, that's more true than rational thought.
It's fundamental to my, the essence of my being, and without it, rational thought is meaningless.
Now I'll mention briefly, and I want to say a few preparatory words about this.
In our situation, we have available to us constantly many kinds of intoxicants,
and some of them are behavioral intoxicants, right? They're just things we do,
and some of them are technological intoxicants, like our smartphones and TVs and computers and
smart watches and pads and cars and all kinds of, you know, endless forms of
watches. I mean, it just goes on forever. It's an infinite morass of objects we can
invest in somehow or become lost through, in a way. So, intoxicants often are presented
in lieu of the invocation of our actual dreaming mind. Now, of course, if we're watching a really
good film, part of our dreaming mind and imagination becomes involved, right? And we bond with certain
characters in a manner of speaking, and we, you know, have ideas about how it could be different,
or what so-and-so should have done, so forth. We become sort of consciously involved, but also
imaginably involved if it's really good. Now, a book is a is a weirder thing because a book
is almost like a dreaming catalyst. If you're imaginative and you read and you're deeply engaged
with what you're reading, with your imagination and your intelligence and your curiosity,
then the book sort of makes you dream, or rather it's an experience of lucid waking, right?
You're having an experience of imagining beings and events and also your relation with them and
feeling your relation with them while you're sitting in a chair or in a library or in a cafe
or in your house or in the field. So, a book can introduce a kind of limited lucid waking.
Curiosity about deep questions and the world and how those two things, like there's nothing
missing from anything around me. Every question of physics is probably answered in any leaf, right?
Though there are perhaps layers of abstraction that are proper primarily to
structures human thought in mathematics and other disciplines.
So, we have intoxicants and some of these intoxicants are either counter-fitting
our dreaming faculties or they've captured them and we're being sold back a kind of broken version
that doesn't really have a lot of room for our participation, but we're so hungry,
in a sense, that we'll consume it because something in us remembers that we can
dream our lives and be dreaming while we're awake, be lucidly waking.
And unfortunately, many of these intoxicants have the property that in a way the more we consume
them the hungrier we get, right? Just like any intoxicant. Where's the limit?
Where's the limit? And many of them are toxic, that's why we call them intoxicants.
So, they're poisonous, they're not nourishing, they're not healthy. We do them instead of
something much better we could be doing and being and feeling and growing into together and even on
our own. But the particular class of intoxicants that we refer to as hallucinogens, this class which
I think of as quite dangerous and worthy of profound respect in a way not dissimilar to how a firearm
is worthy of profound respect. Respect for their danger, right? And it's not easy to see their
danger until you've had a view of awareness that's very broad. So, I want to be very clear that I'm
not making a recommendation for the use of hallucinogens here. My position on the use of
hallucinogens is complex or my positions and they vary depending on what the question is.
It's not just one idea but they're dangerous. But one of the qualities they have is that they can
under the influence of hallucinogens we may recover a natural feeling of participating directly
in reality coming into being moment to moment, right? And we may have emotions and felt senses
that are very similar. Well, let's say this, they resemble some of the added dimensionality that is
natural to dreaming. Now, of course, when I say the word dreaming, there's a huge maybe an infinite
scope of different experiences that fit in there. And honestly, I think there are thousands of kinds
of dreams or kinds of dreaming experience. And we could, you know, break them down into four or five
or try to make the number manageable. But it's actually so profoundly unique and local to each
dream. We have to keep both things in mind. Yes, it's a dream and so it has likeness with other
dreaming experiences. But it also at the same time has unimaginable novelty that doesn't fit in any
category at all. So it has both these things. And this is part of why we need dreaming consciousness
in our waking awareness because otherwise, everything just collapses into thingness.
That's a this, this is a that, here's what you do with this, here's how it's supposed to be,
so on and so forth. It's not habitable terrain for awareness. And it's cruel to our imaginations.
But psychedelics can, you know, and often do, reintroduce something that I think resembles
aspects of what is possible if we're lucidly awake.
So a writer sort of has a license to dream. Anyone who makes stories and scenes and vignettes
and poems and paintings and dances and songs.
