You know, I'm capable of thinking about and talking about these things, but I am completely humbly human, just like everybody else. I'm confused. I don't understand. I'm trying to get a glimpse of something resembling insight.
I'm trying to make a beach head somewhere where I can understand both the nature of the most essential aspects of our existence and the structured methods and habits.
That are passed from generation to generation in the form of language and in-culturation, naming, concept, lineage preservation or disappearance.
And you can see, by the way, that any culture that was doing, like, lineage preservation, they're maintaining their relationship with origin.
And the cultures that don't have a lineage, those things are mostly pretty terrifying in their outcome.
When humans lose their relation with origin, the agented aspect of the species at large, and, I mean, it's a historical problem, right? It doesn't just emerge because we have this potential.
There's a long, complex history of the heartbeat, of the relation between broken, highly motivated agents who are just trying to dominate the field and a sort of rewinding, right?
Back into ambiguity, the unknown, the mysterious potential, and then, you know, the resurgence of agents, their transformation into, I don't want to call them, I don't know what to call them, broken agents,
which should be obvious most of our corporations and institutions are largely fall down on that side, and the ones that don't are dependent on that side, so, for survival mostly, in many cases.
But yeah, there's this sort of ebb and flow, even in my own mind, right, between my capacity to open up to, to drop my stories, to drop my structured habitual behavior, and to open up to a broad field of potential,
and then maybe re-navigate, right, instead of just doubling down on my last ten moves every day for my entire life.
And believe me, I struggle with that, in case this isn't obvious. The fact that I can see doesn't necessarily mean I can do.
And sometimes by seeing, I'm hoping to illumine the terrain ahead so that I can chart a course in that direction, however poorly I may too at implementing that.
And that's what I think is some of the most beautiful work we can do together is learn to invent paths to cross the gaps that are ripping our lives and world apart, our minds apart, our bodies apart.
There's so much more to the gap-crossing story, but I think if you use it as a lens, you'll find a very fruitful intelligence and novelty,
because what it magnifies is extremely interesting, and one of the things that leaps out at us when we first glimpse this is that, yeah, local beings' organisms, they are absolutely incredible because it's going on inside them, trillions of times per picosecond.
But the between of beings is sort of like where it's at, yeah.
Thanks for joining me. Hope to see you again next time.
