Hey everybody, thanks for joining me.
Before I begin to speak, I have to imagine.
I have to become concerned to translate potential into some inaction.
And I started out thinking about a paradox.
There's different ways to frame it.
And the language makes cuts in reality and possibility.
Both.
That we're trained to be unconscious of.
And because we can't see the language making the cuts, a paradox ensues.
For example, I could say this statement is false.
And notice it's the negation where the paradox ensues, because if I say this statement is true,
there's no terrible conflict there on the surface of things.
But if I say this statement is false, we have a problem.
The problem can be understood from many different perspectives,
and I think it's an extremely fruitful problem.
A beautiful, elegant toy of teaching, and maybe even awakening.
It wasn't opposed for the purpose of just stymying our minds.
At least I suspect it is very unlikely that that was its origin.
No.
There's a problem with certain peculiar forms of negation inside the context of assertion.
But there's a weirder problem.
Which is that this statement is true, is kind of trivial.
We can agree or disagree without any significant rational consequence on the surface.
But even that cut, when looked at carefully, is very nuanced and bizarre.
It's just not as obvious as when we use the negative, so to speak.
We could talk about that different ways too.
But this statement is false poses an absolute paradox.
And the problem, as I've said many times, is that language doesn't tell us what it means.
We use language to mean things together.
So implicit in this statement is true is a meta statement.
And the meta statement is language tells minds what to be.
But actually the meta statement is just truth.
The statement is simply saying that the truthfulness of statements pervades over their content.
Which is backwards.
And is the kind of really weird, pure statement.
If we say this statement is true, it's much more obvious than if I use the false example.
The statement is just yelling truth here.
Inside this, which is a pretty strange thing for a simple statement to be doing inside human minds.
Of course the statement does nothing on the page.
Without minds it's meaningless.
So one of the things we can notice is that the statement collapses minds into statements.
No reasonable language would do.
Both statements, the statement is true and the statement is false.
Are twins in the sense that, but they're weird twins, the false one has extra dimensions of brokenness.
Or displays them more obviously.
I figured you'd probably rather look at some plants than me sneezing.
So we can, both of those statements have no content other than the assertion of their relationship to truth or negation, true or false.
But they don't tell us what true means and they don't tell us what false means.
And in fact they're sort of like null statements.
They have a weird shell but there's nothing in it except the language.
And this is the bizarre twilight zone where human consciousness goes awry all day long every day.
We take, we're trained to take from childhood extremely superficial statements about things either as reasonably definitive, absolutely definitive or the best map we've got.
In the worst case, we exchange our relationships with our own minds, our humanity, our intelligence, our creativity, with tokens.
That's a tree, that's a dollar, that's a sports car, that's a book.
And when we do this kind of thing, meaning and identity, our own identity, it's not that they disappear but we're sort of cognitively defecting from them.
Into the abstract space of statements and models and ideas and averages and generalizations are mostly extremely crude understandings of statistics and things like this.
And there's a position up from this strange pair that I really like because this statement is true, actually has like nine out of ten of the same confusions embodied in it.
Not that there's a specific number and probably I'm concerned with three.
I like the superficial okayness of this statement is true.
It hides the greater visceral complexity of this statement is false since of course if that's true it's false and if it's false it's true and so it leads to an infinite conflict, a recursive infinite conflict.
Because it references itself. It's not just kind of a null statement, it's a self referencing statement.
And that's really important to understand, though I don't know if I can explain the importance simply let me have a go at it.
Processes capable of uniquely including either their entire structure or significant portions of their structure as a sub process.
Particularly if that leads to an infinite recursion are important to be able to discern in our relationships with thought and language and ideas.
There are some processes that just fold back on either the entire process, which I'm pretty sure is what's happening in both of these statements.
Infinitely or they there's a kind of partial recursion that tends to be much more interesting in which different aspects of the whole are reprocessed inside the super process.
And I was thinking about zero and one.
I was thinking about fundamental dichotomies yes and no.
Although yes is a by itself if you just say yes.
It's just kind of an app, you know, floating affirmation.
And if you just say no it's the same it's a floating negation.
Because without context the tokens don't inherit meaningful character.
All of our words are like this.
All of our languages like this.
It's almost like saying without equations numbers don't have any implicit meaning other than their order in a system.
So I was thinking about fundamental dichotomies and trying to wrap my mind in a new way around this similar problem of the set of all sets that contain themselves.
These are sort of philosophical issues in set theory and I'm sure they've been resolved and other people can speak to them vastly more insightfully than me.
On the one hand we have the set of all sets that include themselves and there's no apparent superficial paradox there.
But if we go to the negative of that set of all sets that don't include themselves as members now we have a problem.
And here's why. The superset has to include itself.
On the positive no standout terrifying issues that I can see maybe theorists have.
And I'd love to hear about them if so.
In fact I'd love to hear anything about this from anyone who knows something about it.
I'm just an amateur armchair adventurer trying to understand strange things.
But yeah the set of all sets that don't include themselves as members must include itself.
See the problem with that one recursion there?
So when we talk about sets that have a relationship with including themselves or not we can be, it's possible for us to be speaking about recursion.
And base recursion in math is deceptively simplistic in comparison to its origins in nature.
Let me put it that way.
It's dimensionally kind of empty, right? It's pure function.
And there's no such recursion in nature. There's no recursion in nature that's pure function.
It's all, all of it involves relation.
So I mean recursion in nature and by the way in nature I mean in your mind, in your brain.
It can be influenced by functions and structured narratives and so on and so forth.
And it can become, it can build coherence in that domain of its possibility space, right?
Its potential space for development.
That's not the only place that recursion is going on in us by a long, long shot.
Or something that's even meta recursive in that it's, it's recursive over multiple fields of perspective in unique ways in each dimension of relationships,
even metabolic relationships, molecular relationships in the body, you name it, right?
So this whole recursion thing, which I've spent 30 years trying to understand more than the math about,
and the math to some small degree as well, it's a really important thing.
And the reason that these two statements that I started out with are different is because it is,
depending on where we're looking and why, we will see or we will bring forth to our consciousness a kind of fundamental dichotomy.
And that's, it's naive if we take that as like the basis of all things, but it's not naive to be informed by it, right?
So I want to be really careful about how I highlight my concerns here.
It isn't as if light is either a particle or a wave, no or yes or yes or no, depending on how we associate affirmation and negation, right?
Since the wave certainly negates the individuality of the particle in so much as we can understand it,
and the particle negates the universality of the wave.
They have a complementary relationship that we don't yet fully understand.
Granting theories I've heard nothing of that might give us insight, or little of, would be a better word.
Depending on the scope and the point of view that we bring to inquiry, we will learn very different things.
The macro world isn't the quantum world, or at least at our scale there appears to be a discontinuity.
It seems like there's a discontinuity to our very crude, very young, present understanding in physics.
Again, you know, taking into account brilliant theories I haven't heard of that actually have some validity to them.
So, although I'm going to talk about this fundamental dichotomy, you know, the positive and negative, the zero and the one, the sperm and the egg, the man and the woman,
if you want to get really symbolic, the sun and the moon, I want it to be clear that I'm speaking figuratively and I don't want the conversation to collapse just into this idea of,
oh yeah, everything falls into two categories, that's nothing like what's going on.
Everything's mixing in kind of hyper structures of relation, transforming in endless dimensions per instant.
It's a vague stab at, you know, why it's not yes or no good or evil, true or false, a lot of the time, except in language and concepts and logic and, you know, math.
There's some places where we've collapsed the field significantly enough that we can deal with fundamental properties with some degree of sometimes astonishing success.
In any case, all of the organisms here, myself included, are a kind of space, they're a kind of time, they're a kind of space time,
they're unique expressions of space time, and there are intricately propagating dimensions of relational potential between them and conceivably a conflict potential.
So there's a possibility space in which they can relate with one another, and it's really, really big.
It's staggeringly endless, essentially, effectively endless.
And there's a possibility space in which they can conflict with each other, but it's going to be a much tougher game if you have to fight all the time.
So they tend to hitchhike on each other, and they tend to find new ways to do this, and this is actually part of how humans just learn, right?
But what I'm trying to say is one way to think about life is that it invents new kinds of gaps between beings, minds, intelligences, and then it crosses those gaps.
Those gaps like zero, the crossing is like one, right?
Zero is this really strange thing that points at the field of as yet undifferentiated potential.
Now I'm using the word is figuratively, as if, as if zero has this property, because many people may hesitate to ascribe this, perhaps reasonably.
In any case, it can be seen as if it refers to the field of the entire possibility of the number space as yet undisambiguated by the intrusion of purpose, point of view, scope, system.
And one sort of represents the intrusion of structuring and structuring potency, if we're to take them at their sort of base, holophore-like essence in some way.
Though again, feel free to disagree. I'm trying to play with some toys here.
So the bee and the flower, right? Life, there's all these gaps in nature. The bees go flower to flower, connect those gaps, essentially doing that thing that I'm talking about, which I think is, might be one of the super,
super forms of everything about being alive, right? It's a modest toy, but it's a very useful one, I think.
We undergo this process of traversing gaps of all different kinds, you and I, financial, emotional, psychological, relational, economic, vocational, cognitive, psychic, visionary, imaginal, right?
It's like, but fundamentally, sperms cross impossible gaps to make new human beings, and there's like a living one and a zero, fundamentally, in the biological basis of human reproduction,
but not just of course human reproduction. The paradigm is well instanced throughout nature, right? Whether bees are involved? And who knows? Maybe something like bees are involved with human reproduction, we're just not aware of it.
It's entirely possible, we don't. No one's mapped the incredible landscape of the relations between organisms to any even modest degree of completion. There could be all kinds of fascinating things going on.
Not that we need to get sidetracked by that. So, you know, even the words that I'm using right now, I'm using them to traverse gaps in my own mind, gaps that I don't know the origin of, and I don't actually know the origin of the words that I'm using.
Because I don't. The mind is a set that includes itself, but it's largely unconscious of how and why and the origins and, you know, what's actually going on with that situation.
To refer to the field of as yet unstructured possibility is to refer to the field of uncollapsed opportunity, right? It's a really strange and interesting thing to do.
It's probably why it took human beings a long time to, who would have thought to refer to the field? And there are similar questions. Who would have thought to include the point of view?
Can you include the point of view in referring to the field or the agent, right, the one?
One of the lessons from the initial two statements is that minds supervene over statements. Language is a toy. It certainly doesn't tell us what it means.
And if we collapse the ordinary dimensionality of our relationship with language sufficiently enough, we get these paradoxes like the statement is true, the statement is false.
You can also split that up and put those on two sides of a card, right? The statement on the other side of this card is true. The statement on the other side of the card is false.
Now you have a flip-flop recursion, right? Where they're really twinned up.
But I think what was actually on my mind was fertility. All the different kinds of gap crossing. Even in, you can see this furiously going on in just, if you look just at the humans, right, what they do with representational intelligence is kind of weird and crazy.
I think it got off to a bad start or something, something intruded. Maybe something non-ordinary intruded, entirely open to that idea, even though I probably wouldn't directly assert it.
Well, I would pose, yeah, I could suggest ways in which, and I have some models of ways in which, you know, something non-ordinary must be involved, it seems to me.
But I'm astonished by the way organisms create and cross gaps. And though I have no specific idea of exactly how life arose on Earth, I have some fairy tales and stuff.
I suspect that there were incredible gap crossings going on that were totally epic and might have involved other galaxies, you know, who knows what.
And you can see on the side of one that it both, it does really crazy stuff when it interacts with zero. It sets up boundary like membranes in a way, although membranes pretty zero like thing.
But the one tells us kind of where the cuts are, where the rubber meets the road, where we're anchored in point of view, or purpose, or both.
I was reminded of the parting of the Red Sea in the Bible as a moment of profound, you know, metaphoric instance of this property.
Moses, who we imagine holding a staff, symbol of disambiguation, power, penetration, distinction, the one.
And he parts the great ambiguity of the waters and his people escape their pursuers, who are destroyed by that ambiguity.
In a way, there's a parable there about the precedence of ambiguity and what to pay attention to, and which aspect is the origin of the two, right, of the zero and the one.
Because in the origin, you'll find intelligence you cannot locate. It's been discarded from the agent on purpose. The agent is without it, the whole thing falls apart, but it's not the origin.
And if I were to stretch a little bit and risk getting it wrong, I think in terms of our humanity, the right hemisphere is the origin of the capacity for the structured, more structured activities.
And I should be more, maybe I should make more distinctions, but yeah, right hemisphere zero, left hemisphere one.
And the agent divided from its origin becomes catastrophically misguided.
You can see something like this, or actually you could use this as a lens through which to look at human culture, societies, and behavior, and you would see, ah, yeah.
When it no longer cares about its origin, one could literally say something like, they who have forgotten their mothers, or women altogether, or that there even is an origin.
I mean, I say this in a simple way. I was an organ in a female before I was a male, right? It's fairly obvious to me what the precedence is. It's biologically implemented.
Yeah, my dad was involved, right? He, you know, he did the distinguishing thing, right?
He did the, you know, the powerful penetrating contribution of character and structure thing.
And then maybe sort of in one domain representing origin, my father, and in another domain, my mother representing agency because she will give birth to an agent in this, you know, in this model, which is admittedly playful.
Nonetheless useful though.
The humans have invented all kinds of abstract gaps, right? And they're relating together. Well, maybe it's the wrong word. They're misrelating in a layered array of fictions, right?
It doesn't mean they're not having actual human experience. Of course they are. They're all human.
But a lot of the gaps we create and then have to cross are in domains that don't exist really at all. We invented them. They're ideas, right? They're abstractions, systems, institutions, corporations, governments, societies, and so on.
And on that side, we tend to fall as cultures off the cliff into agency with no recognition of origin. And if there's no origin, essentially you can do no wrong, right?
There's no one to, well, you're not counting those who will viscerally reject that, but essentially you can get away with anything because there's nothing to offend.
You wrote all that off. You know, someone wrote all that off when they severed their ties to origin, to potential, to the fact of shared origin, to the fact of shared destiny.
If you can excise all of that, you can just make a pretty killing machine over and over again, and you can keep inventing new ways of doing that and get mountains of commodities.
So yeah, agency without meaningful context is a really fraught and confusing situation for animals like us.
But to circle back toward the two statements, when we notice that this statement, the aspect of our awareness that we use to determine that the phrase this statement is false,
the aspect we use to notice that paradox only sees a paradox if it admits that statements tell us what they mean.
And that aspect, which is the aspect we, well, it's a unique instance of the aspect we use to understand statements in language, and it's imaginal.
That faculty's imaginal, by the way. No imagination, no more understanding things.
But you know, the imagination is just a trivial thing we should dismiss. It's just our imagination.
In any case, that faculty that we use to parse and disambiguate the meaning of the statement is the faculty that would otherwise maintain a superposition and see,
wait a minute, first of all, this is probably a null statement. Secondly, it's a weird kind of null statement.
Thirdly, it's a null statement that refers to its own validity. There's something interesting, and we would notice this about both of them.
Fourthly, the statement implicit in the statement is that minds collapse into statements so that statements tell minds what to see, what to be aware of, what to validate or invalidate, and they never did that.
So we would notice with that same faculty the collapse of these two crucial orders, right? Ideas or concepts or statements or language or math, and the minds that, in relation with them,
may mean things or be accomplishing a function, but the minds don't collapse into the statements any more than they do the math.
So we would hesitate, right? If we're aware of this, if you're aware of it, if somehow I've communicated this, you would notice that when I say this statement is false, essentially the statement's pretending to be a mind.
It's not only that, it's pretending to be your mind. And this turns out to be a really deeply entrenched vulnerability of our people. We get confused between statements and being. We get confused between tokens and what they point at.
The idea that that's a tree is pretty much meaningless. It just means I wrote down, I made a label to stick on that completely inconceivable phenomenon going back to the beginning of life on Earth with endless dimensionalities of relations with every being and all of time.
I mean, but no, I can throw all that way, just go like, ah, it's a tree. It's just a tree. What are you worried about? What are you thinking about? It's nothing to think about, it's just a tree.
I mean, there might be some peculiar way in which that's true, but I'd have to evict the just from the sentence. Our thinking systems are tree-like. Ah, they're cloud-like too, right? The tree-like on the agent side, they're cloud-like on the potential side.
But again, one of these has precedence and it isn't tree, right? It's not the end result of the disambiguation is correct. I could say the end result of this disambiguation is correct. I'm not even talking about anything. Those are words about themselves.
But luckily we have these toys and they can teach us something deeply fundamental if we find them intriguing. Fascinating. I certainly do.
Because the moment of insight when I finally see through this wall of veils, right, into, ah, the paradox is a portal to the recovery of faculties of my own awareness and intelligence.
That's a really different thing from the seemingly trivial, you know, chicken-egg question, which is essentially the same question, right? Is it the pure, undifferentiated potential that comes first or is it the agent?
It's really a question about origin, but that's a different puzzle and there's a different, there are unique, interesting solutions to that paradox too. They don't merely orbit the zero and the one, however.
They orbit the peculiarity of whichness. Who decides whichness? And which, the decision of whichness comes before, like to impose whichness on that in time, comes before the problem. That's one of the key features of that paradox, I think.
