There is always a rainbow
when sun is shining behind a tree.
There's a starburst rainbow.
Now I'm not sure whether this camera captures that effect very well,
but my eyes do.
In my eyes it's a quite astonishing thing,
and I suspect in the camera it is not.
I'll have to look later.
Many people think a rainbow is a very uncommon thing,
and their experiences are relatively uncommon.
But there is a circular rainbow every time the sun is shining behind a tree.
And this is a very profound thing.
I suspect that our ancestors,
particularly our distant ancestors who were more animal than human,
understood something about this.
Something that would be to us hard to understand or mysterious.
However beautiful it may be.
I think we are certainly capable of appreciating the visual beauty of this phenomenon.
But it may have had a much deeper significance for our distant ancestors.
And it's not my intention to tell stories about this right now,
though perhaps at some other time I may.
Today I've been reflecting on two linked perspectives
related to our humanity, how we experience it, and how we think about it.
And the two ideas seem to me to be linked, though they can certainly be meaningfully discussed distinctly.
And these ideas are purpose.
A little while ago I said, it's not my intention.
And there I was revealing something about my purpose in speaking today.
And I should mention that making these live videos over the past week has been enjoyable.
An enjoyable experience for me.
I'm not making them necessarily because I believe that other people will watch them.
Though of course it would be great if other people watched these videos and got something useful from them.
That would be wonderful.
And surely I hope that some people might.
Some people might watch these videos and get something enjoyable or useful from them.
But I am also part of my purpose is just to awaken the aspect of my consciousness and awareness and intelligence.
That perhaps a bit like the sun behind the tree makes a, allows me to have a very different experience of my own mind.
The kind of experience that I have when I am writing or speaking carefully about a topic that I find fascinating.
So one aspect of my purpose is to share with others.
But another aspect is to simply place myself in a context where my mind becomes a vehicle that I can ride in to learn.
To grow.
To acquire new perspectives.
So it should be clear then that when I begin to make one of these little live videos,
I am intentionally shifting the context for my mind and my awareness and my thought and my perspective.
My interest, my focus.
Here in the garden, where the living things are and it is beautiful,
I could simply be quiet and present with the living things.
The living beings.
And sometimes I am.
Most often I am.
There is a lot of contrast between the roar of the motorcycle and the gentle music of the birds.
There is a lot of contrast there.
This Robin is rather interested in me.
I think it wasn't really sure whether I was alive or not until I moved.
Then it became sure.
So if I change my purpose and you know, I may have incomplete control over that,
then who I am and what, you know, if we want to think about that I am a what, I may think.
And what I am or at least what I am doing changes.
And every time we begin to move our bodies or our minds, there is an underlying purpose.
Now we may not always be conscious of this and sometimes there are layers of purpose, right?
I might have the purpose to go to the store, but it's not because I have the purpose to go to the store, right?
I don't suddenly think, oh yes, going to the store, this will be very fulfilling and that's not what happens.
There is an array of sub-purposes.
Either I desire something to consume or some tool or some clothing, some object.
Or, you know, I have to replenish, I feel anyway, that I should replenish supplies or provisions, food.
We might get a little treat here.
My purpose may change momentarily because I have come across a vast population of very tiny insects.
And actually as I am approaching them, the vibration of my voice is changing what they are doing.
And so too the vibration of this helicopter, which I will weigh.
This is one of the larger swarm arrays I have seen and it's not clear to me whether or not the camera is going to capture it very well.
It's also not clear to me yet whether these are the kinds of insects that respond well to vibration, but it appears that they might be.
Oh, oh, oh.
Lower tones seem to slow them and they change their movements with the tonality of my voice.
I've always found this kind of magical and fascinating.
And this chance encounter, it's really astonishing what I can see with my eyes.
The camera does not capture it, but every change in my voice, every word transforms the dance of these insects.
As if we form together a unity that only moments ago did not exist.
Now of course I could simply have maintained my original purpose and walked past them.
But I love this phenomenon and find it quite non-ordinary.
Now I'm sure that it's conceivable that one could explain it with physics or something like this.
Oh, that was a dramatic change, wow.
Oh.
I think the wind has transformed the situation and this brings up context.
Context changes, identity and relationships change.
So that purpose and context radically transform us.
We have these beliefs and ideas that we are static things that are known to ourselves.
I know who I am and so on and so forth.
But when you find yourself in an unexpected context, suddenly this seemingly reliable knowledge can radically transform very quickly.
My whole purpose changed when I saw the insects because I wanted both to play with them and hopefully to allow you to see some of this phenomenon that I find astonishing.
Not all species of small, not like insects respond this way to tones.
Only a particular species or maybe a few species respond this way.
And some that I have occasionally stopped in a gnats form to play with them and gotten no result at all.
So again, I'm sure there's a, we could find or produce a quote unquote, you know, scientific explanation.
But for me, this would not suffice because the explanation is at best very partial.
And at most what we know of what's actually going on in the gnats and around us, it's far, far less than 1%.
If you put like a decimal point and, you know, point zero, zero, zero, zero, zero and just keep going on for a long time and then put, you know, some other number there.
That's probably what the humans have actually formally ascertained about the nature of reality.
So the fact that it seems that our science has given us great insight and certainly it has endowed us with profound technological ability.
It's putting some sage oil on my face.
It is embryonic compared to the context that we inhabit together.
It is extremely young.
Science as we know it is probably only, you know, a few lifetimes old.
Mathematics is a bit older.
But most of what our species has produced in these domains has maybe happened in the last, you know, within the last, well, with mathematics it's a few thousand years maybe.
With science it's probably, science as we understand it today, it's very, very young.
Maybe five or six lifetimes and of course I'm happy to be corrected about that.
So it's interesting because today, you know, I have this unusual orientation, which is that I have the purpose in mind to speak about the nature of our relationship with purpose and how the combination of purpose and context produces different versions,
different potential embodiments or inactions of ourselves.
This is the frog sneaking pond here that I love.
And on warm days I attempt to very carefully sneak up on frogs just because I wish to see them and they're extremely sensitive to movement.
But it's not a very warm day and it's been some time since I've seen any frogs.
If one does not move extremely slowly you will not see the frogs because they will see you first and jump into the water.
So sometimes when I come here my purpose radically alters what I am doing and who I am.
Because I will begin to move more slowly than I would ever move anywhere else.
And it's very challenging to move that slowly because there are nearly no contexts in our modern lives where we move with such incredible slowness that other living things might not be able to tell we are there.
I suspect that long ago hunters had to master similar skills.
Trust me when I tell you they are difficult, the frogs have taught me.
My relationship with the frogs have taught me how very difficult it can be to move slowly enough that either they do not detect me or they do not consider me a threat.
Now of course some animals when they perceive a potential predator rather than fleeing they will freeze.
These frogs rarely exhibit that behavior.
Before we begin any action there is a purpose.
It may be only partially conscious, it may have many layers.
That purpose generates a manifold of cognitive and relational and behavioral features.
And most of the time we are not very aware of our purpose.
But each time before we speak we have one.
Before we move there is a purpose generally motivating that particular expression of our potential as human beings.
And often this is related to our ideas and thoughts and habits.
And often it is related to the roles that we have acquired in our minds, in relationships, in human culture, in society, even in language.
And this matter of this underlying purpose and our awareness of it is vastly more profound than it at first appears.
Because the majority of the time many of us are not aware that our behavior is driven by purpose.
We simply follow through with familiar habits of thought, speech, action, concern, reaction, response, awareness, unawareness, ignorance.
But when we begin to pay attention to the purposes that both motivate and inhibit us
we may acquire new domains or degrees of liberty, new ways of being able to experience and express other aspects of our human potential.
The context plays a big role in this.
In the past I've often made my videos in my home, but now I am preferring to make them outside.
And I enjoy the opportunity to walk and see all of these amazing living things here.
And share them with you.
Even though my camera is a little shaky and I have to hold it in my hand and, you know, it's not perfect.
The vertical perspective isn't as good as the horizontal perspective, in my view.
The horizontal perspective is harder to hold the camera and so on and so forth.
Now before I said all those things I just said, I had purposes in mind that were driving me.
I wanted to explain things about history and how I think about it and why I'm doing this this way and, you know, I had these purposes.
So I want to highlight the profound fact that our often unconscious relationship with purpose has on our identity, felt sense of role, excuse me.
Our identity, our felt sense of role, our potential for intelligence, for creativity, for love, for true relation.
And when we become more aware that purposes we hold both catalyze and inhibit our potential for behavior, for activity,
then we get new opportunities that are otherwise very unlikely for us to experience if we are simply having a largely unconscious relationship with purpose.
And of course, again, there are many layers here, right?
So that, for example, one can have very simple purposes, rather mundane and ordinary purposes that are common and culturally encouraged to consume, to buy things, to work, to build things, to make things, to throw things away, so on and so forth.
But there are things like meta purposes, so that, for example, some of us may hold in our awareness the purpose of awakening to the fundamental nature of being, or the fundamental nature of our minds,
or maybe the fundamental nature of our souls, presuming that we have such things, or at least that such language is meaningful, right?
And these meta purposes can be very profound in their effect on our awareness, on our potential.
And it is from a perspective of having a meta purpose that I became aware of the profound effect and the nearly constant effect of purpose in my own life and mind and behavior and thought and relationships and so on.
Now, the other element that I wanted to touch upon, I've just avoided a large mound of horse-offal.
And, you know, I saw the obstacle, right?
And I, seeing the obstacle, acquired the purpose of not, you know, just walking along the path I was already walking on that would lead me to step in large piles of horse poop.
I mean, it might have been fun to do it as a kid, not really knowing what horse poop was.
I might have been highly motivated to jump up and down in it and laugh and get horse poop all over me. Who knows?
But as an adult, my cognitive context inclines me to try to keep my clothing unsullied by awful.
So, you know, context affects our purposes and it can radically transform our identities because as human beings, although we think, you know, we have a stable self, right?
An eye that is known to me.
In fact, what we really more accurately may have, if we have anything at all, it's not clear that these are possessions.
In fact, that idea is a linguistic metaphor common to English but not common to all other languages.
There are many languages that they don't frame qualities of being or relation as possessions, right?
There are other ways of framing them.
But as human beings, the nature of our felt sense of identity and role is profoundly affected by context.
Change the context and in most cases you will transform the human beings.
And part of this is because humans will tend naturally, somewhat naturally, the way that birds adjust their flight in wind.
Humans will adjust their identity according to context and their awareness of it and particularly the felt senses of role that they derive from their experience of a context.
When I go into a restaurant, my role is relatively well-practiced, habitual.
Same is true of a doctor's office, a shop, the post office, a church, nature, my room.
The contexts with which we are familiar, most of us have already derived and thoroughly practiced familiar roles within those contexts.
And we have this idea that the self is a known thing, having certain qualities.
And while this is not entirely untrue, it is deceptive.
Because if we change the context suddenly, radically, to one that is unfamiliar,
then each of us will be likely to reconstitute, at least, or perhaps even invent a new role.
So that although I kind of know myself, when I am with someone new, I change.
Because I modulate my habitual qualities and speech and behavior in order to harmonize with the person that I am with.
Or in some cases, if I feel threatened, for example, I will radically alter my habitual role to either avoid, defend, or attack.
And this has been common for human beings throughout, I imagine, all of our history.
We are role-sensitive animals, deeply social in general, though it is possible for individuals to be very asocial, even when the context changes.
We do have inclinations that are unique to our personal humanity.
Some of us want to be known, some of us do not want to be known, some of us want to be seen, some of us do not want to be seen.
Some of us find social interaction with strangers rewarding, others of us would generally avoid that.
And in various cultures, there are traditions around these things.
Those traditions form part of the context that informs the common, mostly surface layers of purpose.
So to me, these two, I don't generally, it's not necessary to link them together to understand either of them, purpose or context.
But when we do link them together, the result is very, is fascinating to me.
I marveled, I recall, when I was first, when I first became capable of being more or less aware of my own underlying purposes that motivated my activity, it was a staggering awakening.
Because all my life, I had been largely unaware of that.
Of course, I understand that, you know, if I decide to go to the store, I have the purpose to go to the store.
That's a different thing from understanding the purposes and being aware of the purposes that motivate my speech or how I relate with someone while it's going on.
Because most of the time, that remains unconscious.
And I'm not necessarily arguing that we should hand our purpose of orientation.
I'm not arguing we should hand that off to consciousness, a word that can have confused and different meanings and different contexts.
Rather, I am highlighting the possibility of directing our awareness toward the underlying purposes that motivate our speech, our behavior, our ideas, our relationships, our beliefs, our actions, and so on.
Gently, you know, one doesn't have to be forceful about this.
I just ask that we shine the light of awareness, and this is a metaphor, on this aspect of our being, that we become aware that before we do or think or say things, there's a purpose.
And sometimes that purpose serves us and is beautiful, but sometimes it does not.
Sometimes it's merely the intrusion of habit or some cultural imperative we've acquired.
It's nice when we have the opportunity to be free from habituated purposes, roles, and contexts, relations with context, that inhibit or, you know,
remove degrees of liberty that might otherwise be profoundly experienced and explored.
