It's ironic that this beautiful garden is surrounded by roads and machines, right?
On the other hand, even though it is surrounded by roads and machines, it is a sanctuary for me and for my heart, because I love living things.
So this is a context for me in which deep reflection is supported, is nourished, is nurtured, because it is alive and it is beautiful.
It's very surprising to discover how profoundly context affects identity for human beings.
It seems to me, from what I have learned about this, that human beings derive their sense of identity and role from their sense of the contexts with which they are engaged or in which they are embedded.
And this too is extremely profound, because if you can alter the context dramatically enough, the human being will experience an unexpected and often profoundly deep transformation of identity.
Now, we would all experience this very regularly except for the fact that the roles we acquire in our cultural context and in our daily behavior and situations are sticky.
They're so sticky that it can take a while for them to wear off, right?
And this is one of the reasons why, sometimes when people are brought out into nature and do this thing we call camping, for the first few days or maybe even a week or two, maybe you've heard stories about this, some of these people are miserable.
They think this is a terrible torture. Why is this happening to me? I want to go back to where it's warm and there's television and grocery stores and so on.
But often after some time has passed and their habits have worn thin, the reverse happens. They don't want to go back, right?
And this is because our experiences, well, because is a questionable word. One way to think about this is that as if we acquire these sort of layers of habitual armor and role armor and identity armor,
and it takes a while, we have to be in a new context for a while and we have to be willing, to some degree, for those things to wear off and then for us to be able to see, oh, my goodness, I am actually a very different animal than I thought I was.
I have all these potentials that were not common to my previous experience.
And so it's not always sufficient to simply change the context, though often you will see a radical transformation in a person's identity or behavior when the context suddenly shifts.
And one of the most incredible places to see this is when there is a crisis. In a crisis, people get a good glimpse of their willingness to shift role.
I've seen videos, for example, of a man who is in a mall and he's there to shop, right? He's just there to go buy things, probably.
And he's thinking of himself, you know, he's thinking as a consumer things, right? Which stores do I want to go to? What am I looking for? What's on my list? How much money do I have? So on and so forth.
And he notices that high above him, a small child has climbed up on the rail above an escalator and the child slips off into free space.
Suddenly, the man's role and identity completely transform and on a good day, he manages to catch the child.
And then everyone around him changes, right? All their roles change. Everybody changes, yeah?
And they say this man is a hero and, you know, he's amazing and they want to reward him and he probably has very mixed feelings about all of this.
And I've heard, you know, a man who's done this say things like, I only did what anyone would do, but anyone didn't do that.
He was paying attention before the child fell and no one else was or if they were, they didn't know what to do.
He placed himself in the role of rescuer, yeah? And that, you know, he's not doing that because he wants to take credit for it, right?
Or get paid or even to be rewarded.
Although the experience of such roles is often intrinsically rewarding for those of us who are empathic or have, you know, an altruistic heart.
In other situations, you can see the opposite kinds of behavior.
You can see that some man will see another man who represents some cultural potential that he finds threatening or despises
and will attack that, you know, will transform from a person just walking down the street to a predator, right?
A perpetrator, someone who's going to enact violence on another human being because something was in them was triggered, yeah?
And so that person's role transforms, although it's very likely that a person like that has built up a long history of this kind of behavior.
But even these people can be transformed by context.
Even people who are habitually vicious or predatory or cruel can be transformed,
can have those habits sanded off in a context where they have rewarding experiences of inhabiting other roles.
So context is really profound.
And when contexts are grim, you know, we see both the worst, perhaps more of the dark side in general of human beings.
Some people would argue this anyway because they have the purpose to argue that because they're attached to that idea and that's why they argue that.
They're habitually attached to the idea that, well, in a crisis, people just become animals, you know?
And that may be because they want to prepare for a situation in which that happens so that they're not caught helplessly unaware.
But other people will rather naturally tell stories and assert that some of the most beautiful and profound aspects of our humanity will only emerge in a crisis where things are grim.
And there is terror and catastrophe and war or, you know, poverty or disease or something very, very difficult to cope with.
So context and purpose are very important to how we understand and experience our humanity and being able to illumine these aspects of our human experience with awareness,
transforms our relationships with them and will give us new opportunities to learn and understand and grow and not just learn but even to invent, right?
To make something where there was before almost nothing to create roles that are beautiful and meaningful, habitable, nurturing, alive,
alike with the essence of our humanity, the essence of our intelligence, the essence of our potential, whatever this language may mean for you.
And I find this fascinating and I am grateful just to have some time to reflect on this with you, even though, of course, I am here essentially by myself.
I am imagining because I have the purpose to do so and because the context of, you know, electronic communication in this mode creates this opportunity, right?
I would not be having this conversation with myself or I would not be inhabiting this role, right, of one who reflects upon these things if I did not imagine interested others to whom I am speaking.
I certainly would not be having this conversation to myself alone, like I would not talk to my hand this way, right?
And yet for some time now I have been talking to a device in my hand imagining that interested others may enjoy my reflections or may find something useful about them.
And so here you see, right, purpose, I have some purpose in mind, and also context, right?
We live in this weird technological context where I can hold a device in my hand and talk to distant others sort of at random who I don't even know which ones will listen or if they will listen.
But I will have a long, you know, reflection with them.
And for me this is a kind of a journey or it can be metafied as a journey in which I walk or travel along a path from a place where I begin, from a place of departure toward a destination.
Now again, this is a metaphor, although I am actually walking around and I, you know, will have a destination eventually.
But I am grateful for those of you who may choose to travel with me, that we may learn together and grow together.
And I would love to hear your thoughts or reflections on any of the matters that I have explored or touched upon.
And hopefully, you know, even when I make this video, my identity changes.
If I watch this video later to see how I did, my identity will change, right?
The context will change who I am, what I am doing, what my purposes are, all of these things.
So hopefully together we can learn to illumine these very important fundamental matters that underlie our experience of being human
and can help us understand the relatively insane cultures and contexts that we ordinarily encounter and participate in.
Cultures and contexts, roles and relationships that are primarily representations of things that once were vital and now are commodities.
They are consumables or can be thought of in this way.
So I am very grateful to have this chance to share with you, to be alive this day together and to reflect on these fascinating aspects of our human potential and experience.
And I hope you may find something enlightening or useful in these reflections.
And I look forward to more exploration, wonder and travel together very soon.
Thank you for joining with me, for learning with me and helping me learn, for playing the role of conversational companion and audience.
May your dreams be deep and wise, and may your awareness of purpose and role expand and be liberated.
