perspective to begin with that while useful in its narrow fields of application becomes a bit
confusing and tyrannical when it escapes them. Before I close, I'm going to touch briefly on the
question of what could a soul be? What is the intellect? What is that with which you can tell
whether something is true or not, whether it is beautiful or not, whether you like it or not,
whether you recognize it or not? What is it? What is that with which you laugh when a joke gets
through to you? What is that which makes you cry when deep feelings are aroused? And what is meant
by this idea of a soul? Could you have a soul? And might it be something you could lose? Or could it
be threatened? Or could it be rewarded? So now if you have a soul, like if you have individuality,
which again, I think we've seen is really kind of a questionable idea, although it's you got physical
individuality, that's deceptive compared to our human nature and the real situation of relation
on earth for organisms and people with hearts and minds. So do we have a separate soul? Now if we do,
then of course it can be threatened and we can be told there are rewards for it and such like that.
We can be told it can live eternally or maybe perish or possibly be tormented, rewarded and so on.
But what if we don't? What if our soul is a constellation of other lives and our position of reference
to that constellation? So it's obviously a constellation. I have a specific link to every organism on this planet
and so do you. And that's probably the most fundamental identity that I have in truth. The most trustworthy,
absolutely true fact about who and what I am. I have a connection to every animal in the earth,
every ecology. And then I have a specific connection to every human being in all of human history.
And then I have closer and closer rings of connection until you get a very small constellation of those people
who've been close to my life, who I've impacted so to speak, or who my existence has informed
and whose existence has informed mine. And so too I have relationships with temporal situations,
context moments. I have a specific temporal relationship to every moment in terrestrial history at least.
But when we start getting close to the people and the animals and the living environments that I have emerged with
and from and as, we start to understand something about my soul. My soul is the living places and beings
and relationships in whom I have brought soul into, and who have brought soul into me.
So it's not something that I have, right? It's more something that I express. The index finger of a hand
doesn't have its own soul. What the hand is used for and does expresses the soul of the index finger, yeah.
So like, I don't really, though I can understand and very much identify with the idea of a separate soul
because I'm a regular person, raised in Western America, everything I see in nature implies something else.
And not just in nature, things I've seen beyond nature too. Very clearly seem to imply that a soul is a way of being in an as-relation
and it is also something like a way of travel in an as-relation.
And it depends upon the relationships closest to one's own heart, origin, life, places, the animals and so on.
So for me, it's a change in constellation and it's really the whole history of life on Earth.
But if you want to get, you know, close to me, my little portion of that, so to speak, it doesn't belong to me.
Indeed, what I have over it is conservatorship. I have been blessed in my toy that I'm making here
with the capacity to invent and enact soulfulness as Darren.
In a milieu so exotically beautiful, so incredibly alive and true that such an opportunity is an unimaginable grace.
And though in my regular human thinking and, you know, in relation with the, with culture and the overlays and the internet and jobs and fear and such,
I forget all of that. Fundamentally, I sense that a soul is something we are doing and not something we possess.
And so that I do not have one, I become one. Or not, I become one, I become, what is the right word? It's not a one.
I become the flowing of soul or something like this. Yeah.
I'm, forgive me, my words are failing, failing me at the moment.
That's probably appropriate when speaking of such matters.
But what I'm trying to get at is just that it is a capacity of agency that's local to my mind and life rather than a possession that will,
that I have now or will depart or can be tortured or preserved.
Well, no, it's a pattern in a vast web of relationships. Yes.
And so I can't have that any more than a drop can have the, a drop of water can have the ocean. Right.
And there's another very significant facet of this idea, which is similarly true of the intellect.
We imagine that they're locals stuck inside us a possession. They are nothing like this. They're vehicles for travel.
And there is a dimension in which the intellect can travel that is alive and itself more than intelligent.
And the same is true of the soul. The soul's dimension is nature. It is meant to fly. It is a flying part of you.
And so to the intellect. But these matters are much more complex. We'll leave them for another time.
Perhaps for the moment, I've at least brought into question how we tend to think about people, right?
Because they don't tend to become people until you give them a context in which they can authentically personate. Yeah.
So they're kind of in a proto state until then. And we have to make that context and how we are depersonated and then must impersonate people
and how it's not going to work. How therapy is a little bit weird about that.
And then the intellect. That with which we represent and think and use language.
And how this, and ideas from the intellect tend to stand over our intelligence and form cultural overlays,
and bury us in all of that. So it's really hard to discover who to be, how to be, what to be.
And then finally, the soul. We don't possess it, but it is actually related to how we are in relation.
And thus you don't have one that's getting stained or marked or counted. It is a way of being or not.
Being some other way, which definitely can become accounting and is likely to do so.
And perhaps we've raised some questions about the possession, the possession aspect of qualities, right?
The qualities are associated with people, when really it's kinds of potential.
And most of it remains hidden until there's a context appropriate for it to emerge.
Until then, what will we see? I don't know, symptoms of its absence?
If we think those are people, we ourselves have become quite confused.
Perhaps by creating contexts that are authentic, challenging, mutual, cooperatively competitive, and ecologically intimate.
We will have a chance to discover what it might mean to be an individual.
And what it might mean to be a part of a collective that was noble and true enough to stand in violation of nearly everything else we've seen.
Again, with few and wonderful exceptions. Perhaps we'll find ways to become more of those together. Thanks.
