So here we are with part 3 so far of my interview with Mark Kevin Charlton Davis
about his life history and also his exposure to indigenous ceremonial
traditions in Africa. And where we left off was the water initiation which was
really just dipping. Yeah. And did you feel that anything came from that
initiation or? Not directly. Indirectly, slowly, over time. And mostly it had to do
with like washing away all of my preconceived ideas. Cleansing. Yeah. It was like a cleansing.
Powerful. Just dropping away. You know, I didn't feel the guilt and all of these
things that come with leaving a religion. Wow. Yeah. Wonderful. So how do you first
get to Africa? How did I first get there? Yeah. How did that end up? How did that
first happen? Okay. So I gave my notebook to Malidoma. And I met him at the same
time I met Governor Brown. Apparently Governor Brown was one of Malidoma's
regulars as far as going to get readings. But Malidoma was invited to one
of Brown's events and I went there and I met Malidoma there. Malidoma asked me to
meet him there. And I handed him my notebook and he said thank you and
checked it out. But a couple days later he called me and asked me to come work
for him. I came into the office. He said, you know, here's my computer. This is that.
Here's how you use the voicemail. And he started like covering all my expenses.
He didn't pay me a check but he covered everything. He paid for my ticket to go
to Africa to help him bring some of his students there. So that was my first
time. So where did you go? Down in Burkina Faso. And you were bringing students from
California? Yeah. Well they were from all over the United States. So we didn't
bring them on a plane. We met them in Magadougal in the capital of Burkina Faso.
But it was a program that he had. A year-long program actually. And I gathered
there are many different ethnicities. Oh yeah. But predominantly Caucasian. It seemed like
Germans are really attracted to that. Not surprising somehow.
So what happened? We get to Africa. Finally. Oh yeah. How did it go? You're in what? Burkina Faso?
First? Where are you first? Only Burkina Faso. And we were there because his
grandfather died. Maybe somebody in his family died. Maybe it wasn't his dad though.
But we had to go for that ceremony. And you know there's a lot of crying.
They instantly, as soon as they walked in, we got there maybe one in the morning or
something to the village. It was so cold because of the smells in the Adobe houses.
It was my first time experiencing that. There is no pavement. There's no concrete anywhere.
The smell of the chickens and all of that was there.
And then he started crying instantly. And then everybody started crying.
And then they all started coming out. And from that moment he stepped in there.
There was a month-long funeral. They were waiting for him to show up. And then even
one of the reasons why it was a month-long is people that were far away still had to come.
Everyone had to show up before they finished. So some of these people were old men walking from
another village. My first experience in Africa is a month-long funeral for his...
I thought it was his dad, but now I'm confused. Then what happens?
Well, that month-long experience was something else.
Share anything you wish. Some of the sacrifices were gruesome. They would take young goats and
they'd be on the roof and they'd be doing ceremonies holding the goats like this.
And then at the end of the ceremony, they'd smash the goats to kill them.
Of course, they eat them. They eat everything there. Rare occasion did they not eat.
But still, it was pretty gruesome. It was horrifying for me.
You'd never seen anything like that. No.
Animal sacrifice. And chickens too?
Yeah, lots of chickens. That was the constant.
Yeah. I got really good at doing the chickens. But yeah, we did cows, bulls.
That was really gruesome too. It was an incredible amount of blood.
They don't die slowly. I mean, quickly. They die very, very slowly. It was very hard.
And was your primary feeling during those sacrifices one of,
like, wow, this is really gruesome and agonic and painful for the animals?
Was there any feeling of power there or just what is this?
You know, I think because it was kind of shocking for me,
I probably lost the experiences I could have had with that.
You know, I learned how to do it myself and I participated, but I was still in shock.
I understand. Yeah. Yeah, I'm sure I would. I've never seen anything resembling that.
As a carnivore, obviously I participate in, you know, factory farming,
problem, all of these things, which is devastatingly wrong.
And Malidola told me that, I don't know why he told me this, but he said there was
one of the festivals we had during this funeral. There was a girl that was sacrificed and she was
in the soup. Real. Yeah. A human. I'm not sure why he told me that. I don't know if it's true.
You know, I felt like throwing up, of course, but that was one experience. Wow.
The hardest part about being in Africa for me is those kind of things. You hear these
really outlandish things and you have no way to verify what it is, where it's from.
And with the language barriers and everything, because there's French,
I could kind of catapult in the French, but I can't go into Dagora, you know what I mean?
So that cross translating, a lot of things were lost. Of course, yes.
The connotation trees of words in indigenous languages are very profuse.
And the connotation trees for English and French are very minimal, Harrison.
And so there's all these principles that just don't come across. When I was speaking with Ryan,
he taught me a phrase. I'm not sure.
I can't really remember the phrase and I'm not going to look at it at the moment, but
the translation is something like just keep going forward.
And it's sort of like just keep going forward in a dark time when there's trouble.
Right.
Shadows on the valley of death.
Right.
I can't find it.
But in Blackfoot, the phrase immediately recalls to mind the bison in the winter.
And the old bull bison is a long story here, right? Like some indigenous Americans
wanted to hunt buffalo near Yellowstone.
And so they had to apply for a license to the Parks and Rec Department.
And the Parks and Rec Department said, you know, we're really concerned about these buffalo herds.
So we want you to kill only the old, non-reproductive bulls.
So they hunted the old non-reproductive bulls. Those herds died.
And they died for this reason of this idea in Blackfoot, right? Which is,
it's not just keep going forward. It's in the winter when there are walls of snow and ice
and the bison are starving to death. The old bulls crash through the walls with their horns.
Right. And they just keep going forward until they bring the herd to food.
So those herds starved to death because the old bulls that crashed through the snow had been killed.
And you don't get this from just keep going forward. It doesn't help you, right?
It translates into English.
Stuff like that and you lose.
Yeah. So you're in Africa for the first time. This must be just mind-blowingly incredible,
even though you're not yet in Nigeria, the place of your own people. And you're with the people
of Burkina Faso. And for those of the viewers who don't know, talk about the houses.
Oh, I was fascinated with the housing. I mean, Adoli housing, they use Kalmanor and they mix it
with grass. And they, you know, they use clay to build the actual bricks and they stack the
bricks up. And then they cover it with this Kalmanor mix with a whole bunch of ingredients.
And they're able to smack it in such a way or something, they make it shiny. So it glistens.
Wow. And then they paint these beautiful designs on it. You know what I mean?
I mean, it must be at least some slightly similar to TP painting.
Yeah. There's some a little bit of cross quality.
Geometric shades and things like that. Yep. And the smell of the thatch, the grass itself,
the thatch roof. And they weed it in such a way that you look at it, you just can't stop looking at
it. It's almost like a Fibonacci scale kind of stuff, you know, really, absolutely beautiful.
I love it.
Talk, if you will, about the first indigenous person there that you made a connection with.
DDA. Yeah, that's a Malay drama's little brother. So when I complained about in white,
opened my mouth so much about that little twin that was in the cave.
I complained a lot. And he felt bad. He set up a meeting for me to meet another Shaman.
Now, this goes into the bizarre stuff. This is where I don't know what happened to me.
Good. Yeah. Great. Let's hear it. Beautiful.
So we spent all night going to this place. We were on bicycles.
And we ended up crossing a river, a couple rivers, the second river we crossed. It was
a nighttime by then. And all I could see is little yellow eyes around the river. He said,
those are the crocodiles. Just keep following me. And it's like, Oh my God, I wanted to panic,
but there was like no time to panic. I couldn't panic. I had to just keep walking behind him and
stay calm. But yeah, crocodiles, you know, and then we had to climb this mountain, small mountain.
We got up in there and it was a cave, an actual cave. I've never seen it like a cave before.
Wow. You know what I mean? That's a serious moment. Yeah. The other one. There is power in caves.
Yeah. The one Malay drama, Malay drama took us to was a cave as well. But this one was different.
This one was like, that one looked like maybe a lot of people go there. This one looked like
nobody's been there. There were lions paws, prints all around the cave and bones everywhere.
Because he said the native, the local people, they come there to feed the lions. So the lions
come there to eat. It's like, Jesus Christ, really? They come here? I didn't want to be there.
But we went to that place and that cave was on the property of this shaman.
And so the shaman, we went to his house first, right? And in this house, in the middle of his
living room, he has a well, a big water well in the middle of his floor. Yeah. You know what I mean?
Yeah. Really good sense. Yeah. And they sat and spoke about it. You want to travel
anywhere. You have a well in your living room that you got the doorway to pretty much any
place on the planet right there in your living room. It's true. Yeah. That's exactly what happened
too. Is it? Yeah. Yeah. He, DDA, I don't know, they were speaking together. DDA was worried about
something, a family issue, right? Maybe his wife or something. And they were able to look down in
the water and see, like, into his kitchen. I could see, like, motions and movement.
And I could see, like, it kind of images, but they were describing and talking about it like,
this is what's, you know, I just saw, like, images, you know what I mean? Like, I couldn't make out
like a face or something. But I could see, oh, it looked like somebody just ran over there,
you know, stuff like that. But it was in the water. Yeah. Yeah. It was so bizarre.
And then when we went to the cave, I expected to see Contomble there, but I, but there weren't,
there weren't any Contomble there. But it felt and looked like if there were, was any place,
it would have been that place. Yeah. And the lion presence was really strong. You don't smell them.
It was very strong. Yeah. So I didn't stick around that long. What happened in the cave?
Oh, we, I was insistent that we don't stay.
You weren't having any of that. Oh, I wasn't prepared for that. Wow. So you're still pretty
reticent. Yeah. And, and feel like cautious, maybe skeptical. Yeah. And it's not clear that this is
magic. These are, there are crocodiles that are killing animals. Yeah. We're eating human. Yeah.
You know, in soup. Yeah. The fuck is this about? Yeah. Something like this. Within a four-month
period. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Yeah. But you know what? After the third trip to Africa, I got to
understand it more because. Well, we don't want to leave too far ahead, but go ahead and finish
your statement. But in league with the crocodiles, because the bravery that they have in the car,
the little kids in my ex-wife's village, little kids would like take a string and put a chicken on
it and have the crocodile come and grab the chicken and pull it out the water and walk around town with
it. As long as they keep the string tight, the crocodiles just hold on to the chicken. Wow.
And they walk around with it. Because you can't swallow it. Yeah. Right? Yeah. Is that the deal?
I believe so. Wow. And the kids would be swimming in the water with the crocodile
sunbathing on the shore. They'd just be out there swimming. Wow. I can't, to this day,
I can't fathom that kind of courage. I don't understand it. Well, it's not really courage,
is it? Well, to them, it's their family members. Intimacy is what I'm getting at. Yeah. They call
them their family members. Really? Yeah. Those are their ancestral family members. Wow. I mean,
that makes good sense. If you realize that not all of our ancestors are human,
and the oldest ancestors are really profound to have relationships with. Yeah. And those would be
beings like perhaps insects and reptiles and snakes. Yeah. Right? These are the oldest ones.
Shellfish. There you go. Yeah. Yeah. Anything in the ocean or the waters. Yeah. The clams and things.
So, the cave thing didn't happen. You couldn't hack it? Yeah. Yeah. I complained. There was a
few things that happened. I started really liking this one girl there. And I was preparing to bring
her back to America. She was absolutely gorgeous. The thing, it was just too easy to pick a girl
there because everybody wanted to come to America. So, there was no way to pick one. You know what
I mean? There was no way to date one or try to find out what they are. They're all like, whatever
you want me to be. You know? Yeah. But it turned out that Malidoma always had her on the side.
And he refused. So, that's when we started kind of splitting up. Yeah. I see. Yeah. I let that
get in the way. And so, how did this journey come to a conclusion? With Malidoma? First time.
The first one? Oh, the first one. So, he left. Malidoma came back to the States. I stayed
for another month or two. And it was really sad because then all the truth of what people were
feeling and thinking and stuff, they came to me to complain. And even his parents, mom and dad,
that's why I get confused about who died because his dad was there. He was complaining about his
shoes because he wanted new shoes. You know, he was wearing these cheap little plastic sandals
that were broken. And it's like, Malidoma is really wealthy. He seemed to be very wealthy.
He wouldn't buy his dad some shoes. That's what they're telling me. So,
everybody was telling me these different stories. And I don't know the details of why and what
happened. I hear you. Yeah. Yeah. But it's like, suddenly, I'm the one, I guess because I was a
secretary, maybe, they just wanted me to, they just wanted to make a report. Yeah, I know they
need to get it off their chest in a way, right? Because it's heavy things. These are heavy things
to carry. Yeah. If you have to keep carrying them. So, you want to, you know, express them. And then
you can go on with your life or whatever, right? Yeah. So, otherwise, you get disease and trouble.
So, the people, many of the people came to you and did anyone have anything good to say? Or was
it all complaints? Was there any gratitude? I didn't get that part of it. I hear you. Yeah. I
didn't get that part of it. But the circumstances might not have led to that. Sure. Yeah. Yeah,
follow. So, what did you do once he left? What were you up to? One of the things that we were,
we had water well drilling equipment there. And I was helping everyone get set up with that. I
didn't know anything about it. Had to do crash course studies. I had to work with geologists
before going there to understand the system, you know, the areas that we dig and what to expect,
right? And it was kind of archaic equipment that we were using, you know, very old stuff. But
I managed to help a little bit. And I think after I left, maybe a month or so, after they got everything
fully operational, our goal was to set it up so that they could dig their own wells and be free.
But what they did after, maybe two or three months after, they got everything working and worked
really good. They parted the truck out, parts, sold it. Yeah, because they needed money. The support,
