they had no choice. Yeah. I like the selling of the Blackfoot.
It's so poor that they just, you know, anything for money. But at the time, I didn't understand that.
I was really upset that we put a lot of money in time. We shipped that stuff there. I found the
stuff. Yes, but you have to give the money and the stuff, not just the stuff with no money.
Exactly. Right? Obviously. So how do you, so you stay there for another month or two? Yeah.
Any ceremonial stuff going on at that time or just working on the wells?
Just that. We had coup in Africa, in Burkina. What's this?
Military took over the government. Oh. So I was there. It was just before Mali,
I think Mali Doma left just before that coup started. It broke out, but it was pretty bad.
I had to hide underneath my bed. I was downtown. I was in the capital, Waluulu,
downtown. And I could hear gunshots, a little bit of rapid fire. I could hear neighbors' doors
getting pounded on and broken into. I was in a hotel. So they didn't bother the hotel,
but the little houses and businesses that were nearby, I think they even burned down the grand
mall, which they called the Grand Moshe, you know, really large. A bunch of tents and stuff all piled
up on top of each other, people selling stuff. But it's been there for a thousand years or something.
Wow. Like a main hub in West Africa. Huge, huge. And it was the Arabs, I think,
from what I'm told, the Lebanese, they were burning these areas down on purpose because they wanted
the property. And so that was happening. And also the leads, one of the lead band members of a famous
group, they caught him on the road and drove a nail through his head. And so people rose up
against that. All of that was happening. I went downtown when that happened. I was going somewhere
for some reason. And people were pushing and all kinds of stuff was happening. The police grabbed
me because I had their dreads. I think they just thought I was maybe something. And they just were
pushing me around and telling me where to go. But they were really rough, you know, the police there.
But yeah, it was quite an experience. Yeah. I was my first time being alone in another country.
It's very dramatic. Yeah. Pretty mildly. So you come back to the States?
Yeah. Yeah. So that's when I started, that's my first time getting malaria.
Oh, really? Yeah. Before you left?
Yeah. I could caught malaria before I left. I see. And I had to be flown out to
Arcada, California, because Mali Doma had some friends there that were doctors. And they watched
me for about three weeks, night and day, but I was deteriorating. And then finally, I was,
when it was at its worst point, for some reason, they were finally able to see what it was and
and take care of it. Yeah. Okay. So that is an encounter with death. So you're going to Africa,
you go through these experiences that you have there in your first visit,
and now you become literally, lethally sick. And then you come back here during that experience
of being lethally sick. What was going on for you internally? Oh, probably a big mistake,
but I had an ex-girlfriend in Vermont that I kept missing and thinking about. So I kept writing
music for her and thinking about her the whole time. Not very familiar. Yeah. I'm a similar
to the Lost Love. I'll somehow win her back through heroic efforts of wild creativity
and expressions of love. Exactly. Exactly. So especially Arcada, actually Blue Lake, but near
Arcada, it was rainy the whole time I was there. It was really miserable, suicidal kind of weather.
And these guys, these two ladies, they were lesbians, they were monitoring me, but they were
also testing me on all kinds of tests to see what my mental state was. They said my IQ was
like 148 or something. They did some kind of tests. Well, you're sick. Well, I was sick. Yeah.
They fed me and everything, but I worked there too. Well, you were sick? Yeah.
Yeah. I helped them repair things and fence it in. I insisted. Yeah. I can't understand why they
would do it for free, but they really, they were Molly Dummell's followers. Right? Yeah.
Yeah. So they had me on, but they were Jewish, or at least the main one was,
and they had me eating a lot of Jewish food.
And so mostly in your mind, you're focused on the woman?
Yeah, for the most part. You having any visionary experience or anything like that while you're
so sick? Yeah, a lot of it. Can you say anything about that? It's kind of convoluted because
there was something happening with the rainforest there.
Where? In Arcada. Okay. There was some connection with me there that was really confusing my
African experience. So I don't know what to say while I was there. I was only there about three
months. It's a long time, especially if you're sick. It's much longer if you're sick. Yeah,
I was there for a month of getting sick and then a couple, a month about healing. And then I kind
of worked off what I could before I left. But yeah, it was convoluted that experience. Say
something of the experience itself. I was staying in a small little, what do you call it,
not a mobile home, but a trailer, little camper on their property. And it seemed like I had this
connection with moss. It was like a really deep connection with moss. And it felt like my spirituality
had to come through things like that. You know, just, you know, the way moss grows and what,
you know, humans being a fungus or sporozoan, you know what I mean? All of those sorts came from
there because of watching the growth that was happening there. And it was, of course, it was
the African experience, but it was like learning it in America. Yeah, the African experience had
somehow prepared you and made you sensitive to the, to the living places and their, their inhabitants
and the ancestral powers and ways. So you come from, I mean, is there jungle in Burkina Faso?
Yeah, there is. Okay. Some pretty good stuff. Okay. Yeah. I didn't get that until my third or
fourth trip this coffee before then I was mostly desert. That's what I thought. Yeah. Right. So
you come from the desert and the experiences that you've had with the initiations and such
to Arcada, now you're in like redwood forest and stuff like this, right? Yeah. Yeah. A lot of rotting
wood. But a lot of fish and things like that, living creatures. Did you have dreams while you were sick?
You're constantly, at that time, I felt like, you know, I think I mentioned this to you before.
I was able to discover, you know, we still have static on TVs then, right? So I could turn the static
on and I could stare at the static and make it spiral. And I could make it spiral any way I
wanted to the right or to the left. So when I showed these ladies, and we did it on their TV,
they saw it. And it's like, wow, I feel vindicated. I'm not alone now. You know? So I went to other
people, right? There were a lot of them. I think the monster bowl is something you can demonstrate.
Demonstrate and share. And some of the adults didn't see it. But all of the kids saw it. Every
single kid was able to pick up. I said, which way is it going now? Oh, it's going to the right. Yeah,
you got it. It was just that tree experience. It's, you know, kind of like staring at the tree,
yes. The nature experience. I also found during my own experience that the children
immediately knew what's going on. Yeah. They know who's with me upstairs. Yeah. They know that one.
Yep. They signaled to me. I see that the one up there is with you. He looks like a wheel. He has
spokes, like a wheel. Ezekiel's wheel. Yeah. One of the children actually held up this specific
thing. Oh, he had the same toy in his house. Oh, wow. And he came to me and he held this up and he said,
Aloe Paolo, right? Aloe is his friend. I asked his mom, when's his friend's birthday? He said,
Christmas. Great. That's my birthday. Paolo means stick. He's showing me spinning. It's a spinning
stick. Oh, he's speaking Spanish. Oh, I see. But yeah, same toy, Paolo. Interesting. I don't know.
She told me it means stick, but I don't know. It might mean something else. Yeah. I had a short
experience in the islands of Paolo Mayombe, which is a type of spirituality. You have to go to a
graveyard and they cut your skin open and they dig up a body and they burn the body until it turns
to ash. And then they take the ash and stick it in your skin. And you've been through this experience?
Yeah. Oh, my goodness. Yeah. In my Atlanta, which is actually behind us, but it's near Cuba,
really close to Cuba. How? I don't want to derail the story. How did you end up there?
That was before I went to came to California before Mali Dhala. Oh, really? Yeah. That was in
my search for spirituality. It was on while I was on vacation. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. You got to tell
the story, man. How do you end up there? Oh, I mean, this is what the girl. What tradition,
first of all, is this? Santeria. Okay. Yeah. Thank you. Similar to this. Okay. I think it is
Santeria. It's dark. It's not good stuff. It's very dark. Yeah. That's all right. Yeah. I mean,
if you don't wish to speak about it, I'll respond to that. But I mean, there's not a whole lot to
say because I didn't get deep. I don't like traditions. I don't like going into places and
following wearing white, you know, hallelujah. I don't like all of that stuff. You know, I have
to have a reason to do it. I can't just do it. And that's part of the process, especially with
Santeria. There's a lot of ceremony. You know, you have to have to learn Spanish. Why? Why can't
it be in English? You know, that's my question. You know, sure. Why does it have to be Spanish?
But I mean, you know, the Conventation Web. Yeah. It's one answer. So how the hell do you end up
in where? My Aguana. My Aguana. Yeah. And where is that? It's an island in the Bahamas. Okay. Very
close to Cuba. How do you end up there? So my ex-girlfriend, the one that was pining over when
I was in Arcada, we went there on vacation. Okay. And while I was there, we got into competition,
did some competition. A little embarrassing. What do you call it? Beauty contest. Okay.
There's male and female. So she came in second or third place on the female. I got first place on
the male. And she blew up, got real angry. And we got into a big fight while we're in the Bahamas
on vacation. Yeah. And your boyfriend's not supposed to win the beauty contest. No, all right.
All right. That's supposed to be the girls thing. I know. I didn't even want to do it. She's the one
that pushed me to do it. Right. Well, great. That's the problem right there. I wasn't going to do that.
She burned her own thing. She put her finger in the fire. Right. And it got burned. And then it's
your fault. My fault. That's what happened. I'll stick to it. But also, I, you know, I left the
hotel and went to a restaurant and there was a really beautiful Bahamian girl there that I,
you know, got her number and kept her number. When we got back to the States, the fight continued
and we ended up splitting up temporarily. And then I went back to the Bahamas to find that girl.
And then she took me out to Maguana and introduced me to all this stuff. And then I brought her back
to Massachusetts. She stayed with me for about six months until my ex-girlfriend decided she wanted
me back. So she threatened her on the phone and scared her to the point where she ran back to
the Bahamas. And that was the end of that. Wow. I mean, obviously your spiritual path, right, is being
sort of gravitically affected throughout this whole story. There's these moons, right? There's
these women, gravity, the drawing. Yes, you're great. That's siren. The draw you into experiences.
So I'm just trying to understand what was in your mind when you went to the ceremony.
Did they actually dig up a dead human body and burn it? It was already done when I got there.
Okay. Yeah. They had the ash already? Yep. I see. Okay. And we did the ceremony at
the Great Raven, right? Yeah. Didn't last long. And where did they put it? Well, I got it on the
top of my head. I got two marks on the top of my head, one from there and also one from Benin.
But most of the top of my head, they did something on my back, but I'm not sure what it was.
But they did back there. Yeah. But I still got the scar on my head. And this is before you go to
Africa. Yeah. All right. So Africa trip one wraps up. You get malaria, you come back to
California, you're in Arcada with the Jewish lesbians. Yeah. You're sort of feeling into
the power of the forest there. Very strongly. Very strongly. Yeah. Any specific experiences
that you could share with them? The moss there, it was like, it spoke to me. It was like the
moss was like one gigantic, maybe the size of Texas. Wow. You know, it was like a being. Yeah.
Yeah. It's still very strong. I still rely on that. Yeah. Yeah. This is a different kind of
initiation in which the humans are not directly involved. Yeah, it is. Yep. A very good, thankfully
we have these kinds of initiations. Yeah. Right. Because if we have to depend only on humans,
there's a bunch of mess in there. There's tradition. There's some fakery. Yeah. There's some charisma.
Right. Let's just sculpt it. Yes. Yes. Competition for power. There's hierarchy in nature. You don't
really, I don't really get those human problem things. That's right. You don't experience. Yeah.
More pure. So what happens, what's the next chapter like after Arcada?
So like, you know, we had another meeting with Malidoma. I, you know, a big meeting with all of
his students and everything, maybe 40, 50 people. And I complained about everything out loud in
front of everybody, which I shouldn't have done. I got really dramatic. I even fell on the ground
crying and all of that stuff. It was really embarrassing. I think actually it's embarrassing
to think back on, but you must have felt something very, very profound to be willing. Yeah. And I'm
kind of wondering if, again, this rebellion, right, like the thing in school where you notice
like, I will get it, you know, they'll pay attention to me if I do that. Yeah. I mean, I don't know.
I'm not making this claim, asking the question. Yeah. Yeah. I guess I expected my mentor to
not be somebody who's cheating on his wife, that not, you know, take someone that's supposed,
that I was expecting to be my fiance and just like, oh, well, she's mine.
You're married? Yeah. How many women are yours? Yeah. All the women here? And I didn't understand
in Africa, that's totally acceptable. I didn't know what that was. So, yeah, there was a lot
of complaints and none of it was my business. You know what I mean? Really, you know, I couldn't
understand why Malay Dolan was always drunk, like all the time, stupefied drunk. You know what I mean?
Like amazingly drunk. I've never seen anything. I mean, look, Chogan Trumpa, many very brilliant
teachers, you know, you'd show up at the airport to pick Chogan up and there'd be a box of booze
that he'd be carrying. So I've heard. The shamans that when we had our, waiting for a month or so,
they all got stinking drunk. Really? Yeah, pee in their pants and all that stuff. Yeah. Wow. Yeah.
It was very tragic. Drinking is amazingly serious. You know, it's so contagious and it's almost as if,
again, there's something missing from our experience of having a meaningful role and meaningful
relationships and a meaningful life and the alcohol just sort of fits in that groove somehow.
Yeah, it picks up the slack. The pain we feel at being lost in our lives. Yeah. And then it also
produces more of that pain, right? It doesn't solve the pain. It sort of continues. It should feel
better about it growing. Yeah, exactly. Okay, so the big meeting then. Yeah. So that was pretty much
it with my relationship with Malinoma. That kind of ended at that point.
So I started off doing my own thing. You know, I went down and joined the new Black Panther
Party at the Uhua House in Oakland, you know, to get more experience with the Black culture here
in California. I went back to Africa with, do you know Angela Davis? I know the name. She's
famous, Black Power from back in the 60s. But I went with her sister to Africa, back to Donald.
She wanted to kind of witness some of the stuff that was happening there as well.
So, but Malinoma didn't treat her very well. It's like, you know, you're dealing with like
really famous people. You can't even treat them well because, like, they did pay the ticket
for you. I mean, because he, you know, he charges people like $3,000 to come to his village,
that including the plane ticket. She just decided to go to check it out. And now she's
being treated unfairly, you know? So I didn't like that. That sounds like gatekeeping. Yeah.
Right. But also, you know, he was running a business. He didn't want people that didn't
pay to show up. That's unfortunate. Yeah. That's very much gatekeeping, right? He's like,
I'm the gatekeeper here, you want in, you pay me. Yeah. You know, you don't pay me,
you know, come in or you come in without paying me, there's going to be trouble. Yeah.
That's, well, what can you say about it? I mean, yeah. All right. So that was the end of the
situation with Malinoma, pretty much after that. But we still stayed in contact. I still really
love him and miss him. And the more I understood that, you know, maybe he got wrapped up in what
he was saying and just kind of going the wrong path. You know, and he's the one that told me
that that's the biggest danger with shamans. Yes. You know, is that, yep, you see,
affect people and you can get financially paid for it. People start making wrong decisions.
Yes. Yeah. I mean, even in ordinary pursuits, right, actors, you know, you make a film or
you're a hit man, now you got to make hit man films for this film. We have Nissan memory.
I know, right? It's true. It's terrifying. It can easily collapse in that direction.
But your story is still the central feature of where we are here. So how do you get back to
Africa? Or is there an interim? Yeah. So in my despair, Malinoma's neighbor came over to bring
us some beer, right? Because it was, you know, it's got to be replenished with beer or millet
beer is what they drink there. And she was really cute. Is this in? In Burkina Faso, in Magadugu.
Malinoma's next to her neighbor. So different tribes, she's from a different tribe,
but in Magadugu, everybody's from everywhere. So I went back again to, I mean, I stay in contact
with her, develop kind of relationship. I thought they were love letters. They really were all,
