I mean, it was written in French, so it looked so, you know, sexy, romantic. I thought she was in love
with me. So I went back to pick her up and bring her here. And, uh, yeah, I didn't realize that
when I was reading and translating the French that it wasn't, it wasn't love. It was like, you know,
preparation to come to America. She'd say, be you at the end or something, but it doesn't
you know, so I went back there again. And that was a wonderful experience. That was a wonderful
experience both times. I went there, when I went back there, we did a traditional ceremony there
with her family. And we came back here. It was really romantic. It was really sweet,
seeming, you know. And as we're coming back to San Francisco, we're landing the airport. She looks
out over San Francisco. She says, all of this looks like trash. And it never got better.
By the way, like that's, I mean, that's the same thing the forest would say.
Oh, sure. Right. Yeah. What is that? Yeah. It looks like garbage. Yeah. It's like garbage
stacked up really high. Yeah. But I'm with you. Yeah. And even on the plane coming here,
I had to sit in a separate area of the plane because I couldn't, she, all she kept talking about
was her ex-boyfriends. And it's like, I don't want to talk about the whole plane trip, 19 hours or
whatever it was, 13, 14, I think it was 19. It was something ridiculous. I didn't want to just
talk about your ex and how you cheated them or how you left them behind and laughing about it.
I didn't want to hear it anymore. Of course. And back then I was overexaggerated. I would never
have left her today, but I decided to go sit somewhere else. And then eventually I came back
and sat down with her and as we're landing, she says, oh, it looks like trash. And it was,
never got better after that. She didn't, she always talked about how much she hated being here.
So we planned on going back. And I said, okay, I'll give up my beautiful job,
engineer, gave up my job, threw away all my stuff, even my high school yearbook,
all my storage stuff, packed everything up in the Cherokee and decided to drive across
country up to New York. That way I could visit my family and say goodbye to everybody. It was
one-way ticket to Africa. And the closer we got to New York, the meaner she got. It was weird.
It was really weird, but it was good that I went back to Africa that time because then I got a
chance because of her and her families, they are extremely spiritual, very important, not her,
so per se, but her family. They're the ones that all of the elders go to
for that area. And they even have a king, there's a king there for those shamans.
I got a chance to meet him. He had 300 wives and 1,100 children.
Really? Yeah. Literally? Yeah.
I mean, it's hard to wrap one's mind around a number of that. Do you believe that he actually
had that? Because she herself is one of 43 kids just with her dad.
So you think he truly had 1,100 children? I'm not trying to do that. No, no, I know it,
but it's just hard to wrap my mind around it easily. Oh, wow, my goodness. 1,100 children.
I mean, that reminds me of Beehives or something. It's not even conceivable.
But 300 wives, that's like one a day almost, right? Right. I guess. I don't know.
So what happens? So you've left the United States with her. You guys aren't getting along.
Not getting along, but I'm trying to make it work. We bought 43 hectares of land,
started a farm, bought the bulls and the goats and all kinds of stuff. Chickens and lots of chickens.
Yeah, cows. Bulls. We didn't have any cows. What do you get milk from goats? I didn't drink much
milk. I had oak red corn, mainly in peanuts is what we grew and the type of collard green
that they have there, that's so amazingly good. What's it called? It's okay. It doesn't, we don't
have it here. But you take that with shea butter and peanuts and it's like really delicious.
What's shea butter? Yeah. What is that?
They have the curry tea. It's shea butter. It's like an oil from a plant.
Yeah. We've gone from greasy oil. I use it in my hair a lot. But you can cook with it and eat it.
So it was great. I remember some stories about this farm. Serious stories. Yep.
Yeah, it turned out a couple of reasons why I shouldn't have bought that land.
That's the reason why I'm so cheap too. One is because it was a vector, it was a highway for ants,
for termites. The termites here, they built these really large, I mean they almost look like mountains
sometimes. Yeah. Huge, right? But that was their territory and we built the house right there.
Out of what? Out of mud. Okay. Well at least termites don't eat mud.
Oh, they'll bury you right through it. So I woke up one morning, so many stories.
Woke up one morning and I could see a little dirt coming out the wall.
And then I see another one and then I see like 10 and I'm watching it. And then I see the ants
coming out and I'm waking up because we had like 19 people living with us, right? By the way,
you're calling termites ants, right? Yeah. No problem. Yeah, I'm not sure what the difference is.
No, they're both hind and off truck. Oh. They're similar, yeah. They were pretty good size too.
Yeah, yeah, I believe it. It's Africa, it's not the United States, it's not these little termites like
this. No, no. This is the old termites, right? Yeah. First termites. They look like they bite you,
but I don't think they do. No, I don't think so. But I was terrified because they started pouring
in after they got the hole big enough, they were just like fall out. And then like thousands of them.
So we had to vacate, we came out and we went and got help. And I was trying to pour gasoline,
I started starting to get, I didn't start pouring yet, but I was starting to get the gasoline to
pour it on them and light them on fire. But I mean, the house has got a fax roof, so I was limited,
right? I thought maybe the gasoline would at least kill them, but there was too many of them,
there's nothing I could do. And so the neighbors all came out wearing white robes and white,
everybody was dressed in white. Only to tell me, can't touch them, traditionally. Right.
You have to let them go through. To power. Yeah, let them go through. It's the terrorists too,
right? Let them go through. Yeah. I could put maybe salt around the house so they could go around it,
but I can't kill them. Yeah. So I had to let them do their business. And they threatened you?
No. Okay, I just told you. Yeah, they just tore the house up. You had to reek, but you know,
it's mud, so you just re-patch it up, going with your business. That was one incident.
Another incident was sleeping at night and I could feel the ground rumbling. And you know,
I heard this purring outside, but every time the purr, it was a rumble. The ground would rumble,
you know what I mean? And everybody said it was Lyon. It was a lion. And it was really,
really scary because it was, you could hear it snipping around the wall. It's just a mud wall.
Didn't like that too much. And the field. No one usually would think in the west
that the lion will make the ground rumble. Yeah. Yeah. I'm with you. Go ahead. Yeah.
It was really heavy. And the place where we built, the second reason why it was not good to build
there is because no one else would build there because of the demon activity on that property.
So there was a field where all of the ancestors, they call them, but they were like demons,
right? They would all meet there and have a party. And, you know, I was there for
a couple of years. Didn't hear anything until one night, maybe in the second year, the second
summer. Yeah. There was something there. Absolutely something. I can't explain it.
When out of that field, everybody was out of, gone. I was the only one there because I was sick
with dysentery, had dysentery. And I was always sick. So I had dysentery. Couldn't really move or
anything, but I heard that noise out there. I had to go see it. So I got up, got dressed, got out there.
Even though it was my land, it was a long walk, right? Between there were my houses in the river.
And I got about halfway out. And it was the singing and laughing and talking was so loud.
It was, I couldn't even hear myself think. It was nothing there though. Yeah. It was amazing.
And I wish I had somebody that wouldn't need to, you know, to witness that.
Yeah. But that was the other reason why nobody built there.
Did people ever come to the land? No, no one ever walked out there either.
That's where I would go to use the bathroom though.
Really? Yeah. It was private.
And that's where a black mongo was there. It almost got me. It was a little baby one.
But they said the baby ones are sometimes worse. Yeah. The young, young snakes often have more
powerful bandages. I was just relaxed. You know, my own business, doing my thing,
and I look over and I couldn't believe it. It was like maybe to the coffee table.
But that far away, where I could reach him, it just curled up and watching me the whole time.
And I couldn't stop. I had finished. Of course.
But I finished and quietly walked back out of there and got out of there.
There's a recurring theme here of encounters with death.
Very close encounters with death and not just death, but the spirits of the dead and the powers
of the ancestors and the beings who have come before us and died and now still live in some way,
somewhere. The illnesses, right? There's like this heartbeat of illness, illness,
injury, illness, right? Oh yeah. Getting buried under the ground, then getting cleansed by the water.
First the fire, then what? The burial? Or the mineral? No, nature.
Fire, nature, burial, mineral water. Yeah, water was the last one.
All right, let's pause here for a moment and then we continue. Okay, excellent.
