And that goes through experiences in material existence, right?
The soul is affected by those experiences in that it is informed and structured by them, but it is not subject to birth or death.
It doesn't have a beginning or an end in any ordinary sense.
It's a participatory element in a meta-network of beings.
And those beings are atemporal.
They don't exist in time.
They participate in time, but they are free from the boundaries of time and location.
So this is one toy, right?
And as it is now getting darker, I will probably begin to wrap up my video.
But before I do, I just want to say a couple of things.
It's probably true that our holidays are phony, excuse me, in that we just sort of made them up, us Westerners.
But they're not entirely phony.
They orbit transformations in nature in time that are perennial.
And many of their roots are profound.
So that also when we agree to things as humans, it has great power, this agreement.
So if we agree to celebrate our gratitude for life and for our food and for the land and for being alive for the sun, for the sky, for having each other still in our lives,
that's very powerful. It doesn't matter what the Hallmark card version looks like.
When we make and enact these agreements, it becomes holy in that way, whether it was or wasn't, no matter what the story is.
People can jump up and down yelling about whatever they want to yell about to reject the wrapper of Thanksgiving or Christmas.
That doesn't change the fact that these holidays have ancient roots.
And when we agree to celebrate together, it is powerful and it can be beautiful.
So I like to remember the beauty and the power of our agreement and the essential intelligence of demonstrating gratitude for the fact that we can all continue to be fed,
or most of us can be fed, certainly some far better than others.
And it's a fortunate reality that it would be wonderful to see transformed so that everyone could have food all the time and shelter and basic necessities.
However, it's complicated because A, there are a great huge number of humans, and B, there's an explosive proliferation of objects and machines.
And that B part is really a major part of the reason why we can't all have food and shelter.
Our species is busy propagating objects and machines.
In any case, the spirit of giving thanks is beautiful.
And I wish everyone to have, I hope for everyone, that they can have a feeling of joy and a moment of celebration together with others who love them and who they love during the holidays.
So too, the idea of Santa Claus, it seems absurd, yet in my life it is not absurd.
Someone kind of from the North Pole came and gave me a bunch of toys one time,
and those toys have changed my ability to think about what it means to be human.
And I like to share them with other people.
And I'm not saying that it was Santa Claus, but it was kind of resembled Santa Claus in some of its activities.
So, yeah, who knows.
And of course, as most people are aware,
Christmas is painted on top of the winter solstice.
So these holidays have roots that are deep, even if their wrapping is commercialized or colonial or modernized.
And I would say, you know, let us celebrate the roots, and we can worry about the wrappers.
When and if it's necessary to do so.
So I wish you all wonderful holidays and wonderful every days and beautiful mornings and afternoons and evenings
and love and joy and liberation and virtue and wonder and awe and bliss.
Even in the delicate continuum of our humanity,
in which we certainly will encounter terrifying problems and loss and death and illness
and all of the difficult aspects of our lives, poverty and being dominated and isolation, confusion, all of these things.
May the divine beings surround you with their loving kindness and protections and blessings.
In every moment of your thought and speech and action and concern, this day and all your days.
Thanks for joining me. Bye bye for now.
