Hello, everyone.
I'm here at the San Francisco Botanical Gardens again, and this is the entrance cedar.
Yesterday, the hive here suddenly woke to life, and yesterday or today, the hive outside the garden.
Let's see here. Make sure I capture this on the camera.
Yeah, yesterday or today, the hive outside the garden also woke to life, after both of these hives being apparently completely dormant for quite some time.
Certainly, the weather in San Francisco has been different this year than for many previous years,
but I've never seen these hives go dormant, and it was very surprising to me.
I couldn't really tell whether they were dormant or they had been evacuated or they had died.
It wasn't really clear, though I occasionally saw one or two bees near the hive inside the garden, the one we just looked at.
Yesterday, for the first time, the inner hive was quite busy,
and today, as I approached the garden, I noticed that the outer hive was also very active.
I've had a number of topics on my mind lately, although I haven't been able to make a video.
I'm going to try to cover two of those topics this afternoon, because they're related.
These are topics that I've broached in previous recent videos, but not fully covered.
The sun is very bright in my eyes at the moment, and the scent of the flowering trees this time of year in the garden is quite profound.
This garden has one of the premier collections of magnolias in the world, and they are blossoming.
Interestingly, we have these trees completely covered with flowers, and the scent is incredible.
I don't recall ever seeing bees tending these flowers, and if I understand it correctly, the magnolias are nocturnal pollinators.
So the creatures that pollinate them don't exist here, although it's conceivable that there are nocturnal pollinator insects relating with the magnolias.
Again, I've seen no evidence of this, and I'm relatively doubtful that this is happening.
So although we have these vast flowering trees here that produce an incredible perfume, particularly in the evenings, it appears that they are very lonely, and their natural pollinators are missing.
I just want to show the Dawn Redwoods, the Metasequia glyptostriboides.
These were damaged by a tree fall, which you can see here last year. It remains to be seen to what degree some of them will recover.
I think this really large one, the oldest of the four here, will probably be fine.
It's unclear how these ones will fare, but shortly we will see, and some of the other Dawn Redwoods in the vicinity are already producing greenery.
They are the deciduous ancestors of the Redwood trees, and they're beautiful. Their trunks are gorgeous and kind of spooky.
These are one of the trees that would produce pareidolia, if I've got that pronunciation correct.
And there's another really beautiful phenomenon here. These ferns are emerging gloriously, and they're amazingly sophisticated organisms. I love them.
So the two topics that I'm hoping to reflect on today are the nature of our minds, and also the nature of what we brought to human birth that preceded the instancing of an
unlanguaged, inculturated human mind. The precursor intelligence that infants have, and it's clear that many animals have some analog of this.
And part of the reason that it's clear is that these animals, often these will be social organisms, can be observed to play.
Now the questions about the nature of minds run very, very deep, and we don't have the answers.
I've been curious about the origin of minds in human beings, of my own mind, for many decades, and have done a great deal of reading and direct exploration.
And I've had experiences that were astonishing and unexpected in those explorations. Some experiences that I've never really heard anything alike with.
There are questions about whether minds are distinctly located in separate beings. There are questions about what it would look like if we were not. What would happen to a human being if it was not socialized, raised in culture?
And we have some modest examples of that phenomenon. There are questions about the nature of mind.
And many of these questions have been pursued by philosophers and by people engaged in spiritual or meditation traditions.
And there's plenty of material for us to examine that's been produced by brilliant women and men throughout history.
And it's not my purpose here to review that material, though I will acknowledge it.
This magnolia is being tended primarily by bumblebees and the occasional wasp yellow jackets.
Looks like evidence of a bird kill here. So one of the things a mind can do is integrate the input from awareness to produce a novel insight.
Or to produce a derivation. Some people might call it an abstraction. I wonder why this area is closed off. There's no apparent reason.
So I see on the ground a bunch of feathers. Well, not a huge bunch. Let's see if we can survey this area here.
So there's a few over there. There's some here, some here, some here, some there. There's some tiny feathers and some larger feathers here, a variety of feathers.
And it could be that this is the result of preening. But I think there are too many feathers and feathers of different types for it to be merely preening.
And since I know that a number of raptors are very common here in the gardens, and I've seen kill sites before, my suspicion is that that is a place where a raptor consumed another bird.
Now the ability to integrate sensory data and produce concepts and to imagine things and to do this in an organized way so that it's not merely incoherent or chaotic or psychotic or delusional.
Is evidence of what we generally refer to as a mind. And we think of it, we're taught to think of minds as a localized possession of an individual organism.
And this way of thinking about minds emerges from habits of discriminating that we are taught and that are reinforced in our culture, in the cultures that we belong to.
So that we are taught to think of separable entities and of these entities possessing qualities or assets or faculties as though the beings were containers.
The metaphor is that the metaphor at play here is that a human being is a container and the container, oh yeah, there's more feathers over here.
So now my theory has been validated because there are massive amounts of feathers all around here. This is a little bit distant from where the first feathers were.
I don't recognize these feathers though they could belong to a pigeon and pigeons are fairly, pigeons are fairly common targets for hawks here.
But these feathers are gray with, they're much like this one.
And so my initial suspicion has pretty much been validated. There's a very good chance that this is a kill site. There are feathers all over the place here.
This is a little bit distant from where I first encountered a small amount of feathers and there's feathers everywhere here.
So I have gone some, I've traveled, and this is another metaphor, I've traveled in my mind and physically traveled on the terrain in such a way that my initial suspicion was validated or appears to be validated.
There are certainly other possibilities. There are possibilities other than that a raptor killed an aida bird, but there's fecal deposits here and lots of stuff that implies to me a raptor kill site.
And this is an example of part of how humans use the faculties that we encompass with the term mind.
It's not clear whether, I'm not sure I trust the idea that a mind is a possession, though I understand and can use the language comfortably.
In fact, I'm inclined to contest or suspend is another word that I prefer. Many of the assertions about consciousness, awareness, intelligence, mindedness, language, culture and so on that we are exposed to throughout our lives.
Almost all of us undergo a relatively long process of at least modestly formal in languaging and in culturation as children.
And before those processes become relatively complete, although they continue throughout our lifetimes, we experience other kinds of, we experience the precursors to what will become our familiar
experience of mental activity.
Those precursors are capable, they're really quite profound.
I believe that they have a lot to do with our dreaming, the dreaming aspects of our mental interiority.
And I also believe they undergo a process where they are, and again this is a metaphor, where they become occluded or buried under layers of relatively formal representational behaviors and habits.
That we are trained to engage in and to emulate by our exposure to adults, to culture, to literature, to television, to computers and so on.
The topics here are very rich and deep because they go to the core of our waking and dreaming experience.
And there are so many branches.
So one of the branches that fascinates me and that I encourage those of you who are interested to explore in your own way is a kind of historical anthropology of human consciousness.
These studies are concerned with the development and transformation of human consciousness and mental faculties over long periods of our history.
There are books such as The Discovery of the Mind by Bruno Snell and the very peculiar and fascinatingly complex, richly imagined book, The Origins of Consciousness and the Breakdown of the Bicameral Mind by Julian Jaynes.
A very controversial and amazing tour de force which certainly gets some things wrong and gets others perhaps astonishingly the implications of Jaynes' book are profound and worth pursuing.
And there's another book that I'll mention briefly because of its profound implications for our relationships with language, representational thought and the nature of the actual mechanical functions of how we use language.
Though there are many astonishing books on this topic, one that had a profound effect on me was a book by an ostensible madman who was also a genius, Alfred Korzybski, who wrote two books between the 30s and 50s.
I think one was called Manhood of Humanity, a book I've not yet read.
And the other book is called Science and Sanity, which is a very complex and astonishing book about problems with our relationships with language.
So each of us experiences from the onset, from the dawn of our own emergence into physical awareness as infants, or maybe even as embryos, that we can't really talk to embryos to find out what's going on with them.
And it's fairly difficult to talk to infants, yet we can see, we can observe phenomenon that help us to understand that they're having some kind of experience of relatively coherent interiority, mentalistic phenomenon.
So each of us have undergone an evolution of consciousness, which I am inclined to speculate may well recapitulate, uniquely, locally recapitulate, the milestones that our species underwent.
Over long periods of historical time, so let us say 50,000 years, except that human beings 20 or 2,000 or 5,000 or 10,000 or 20,000 years ago,
never traversed the terrain of formal representational cognition that has been the primary activity of our species over, say, the last 1,500 or 2,000 years.
That terrain was not yet established in the human pool of mental interiority, the totality of which, the body, that human pool, that body of which I refer to as our cognizium.
I have the human cognizium, the pool of living minds on earth at any one time, or possibly over some given span of time.
I refer to this as the cognizium.
And the transports between minds in the cognizium I refer to as the mimula, and we presume largely that all of those transports are physical.
In other words, there are no non-physical transports between human minds.
Meaning, you can't know what's in my mind, and I can't know what's in your mind.
If we accept this as a fact, it would be impossible to know that without some physical transaction taking place, which could include very subtle things like pheromones or bacteria.
But essentially, there are sort of two primary schools of thought, though they're not the only ones.
One is all communication between human minds has to have a physical transport of some kind.
Another is that there are non-physical transports, either metaphysical transports or para-physical transports, pre-physical.
I think there's going to be a lot of noise over here for a minute, so I may have to turn around.
So yes, most people who think about these things, or many people who think about these topics, they choose one of these two paths.
Either there's physical and non-physical, the kinds of things we might normally refer to as psychic or telepathic or this kind of thing.
Or there's just physical. You've got to have some kind of physical transport for there to be sharing of information between locally-possessed minds.
Now again, that presumes that the minds are locally distinct, that my mind is sort of in the container of my body and yours similarly.
And everyone's, the animals, you know, if they have minds, are contained in their bodies.
And that's not the only model by a long shot.
Now I'm suddenly realizing that this topic's so deep that I may have to preempt my other planned topic of the originary intelligences with which we acquire
are complexly endowed human consciousness.
I'm going to have to preempt that topic because the topic that I'm playing with is too rich by itself.
So I may return to that at another time, but I want you to hold it in your mind that whatever it is with which we acquire
that which becomes our human intelligence and mindedness
may be superior to the thing we acquire with it that largely hides it forever from our access and awareness.
Most people would think, well, the intelligence of an adult human is certainly preferable to that of an infant.
Yet the intelligence of the infant can acquire an astonishing spectrum of mental faculties, behaviors.
My goodness.
There's one of the raptors that I was speaking about earlier.
Yeah, the potentials that an infant, a human infant brings to their human birth are staggeringly endowed
to be able to acquire and match almost anything, any kind of culture a child is born into,
whether they're born in China or Japan or, you know, India or Kazakhstan or Afghanistan or Israel or Palestine
or the United States or Canada or Venezuela.
They can acquire both the languages, the cultures, the mental habits, traditions and behaviors of a people.
They can probably even acquire things from animals if they are raised among them.
It would be fascinating to see a human child raised among pods of dolphins, for example, or something we ordinarily wouldn't think of,
or prides of lions or gorillas or chimpanzees or a pack of dogs, wolves, coyotes.
There have been children who apparently were lost in the wilderness and may have been socialized among, for example, dogs, wild dogs.
But there are very few of these and I think our perspective on them is likely to be confused.
In any case, hold in your mind this idea, if you will, that prior to imprinting an infancy, our children are possessed
of an astonishingly sophisticated array of uptake faculties that we rarely have a chance to imagine or discuss
and that once these uptake faculties have been imprinted, they recede into the deep background of consciousness
and are thus no longer available to us.
The Corvids are also extremely social organisms in their way.
So we undergo imprinting, each of us uniquely, and we develop certain affinities for various aspects of this imprinting.
Some of us become voracious readers of books, others watchers of films, others become computer programmers, doctors, lawyers,
gas station attendants, cooks, dishwashers, mothers, fathers, psychologists, therapists, physicists, mathematicians, documentary filmmakers,
philosophers, spiritualists, religious people.
There's all these branches within the cultural milieu that we will each choose and we're not perfectly free to choose
because the context into which we were born and within which we are raised will deeply influence the results of our in-languaging and our in-culturation.
And I don't think it's either nature or nurture, it seems to me to be a mix of both.
While the context matters a great deal, children also have uniquely personal, they appear to display uniquely personal affinities and disaffinities
that will radically affect this process of forming what we call mind.
And it should be clear that whether the primary aspect of mind is locally possessed or not, and I'd like to suggest at least that we be capable of thinking
of something a bit more like a receiver and transmitter than a localized library.
The bees that we observed in the beginning of this video briefly represent a unique aspect of a metaphor of mind that exists in nature where
the bees cross gaps between flowers.
And in so doing they connect those flowers, but they also produce a kind of superposition which can be understood as the honeycombs.
And those are food, but they are also a kind of memory, right?
They are storage, in a way, for the processed results of their interactions with flowers.
And they also produce many other products as well, they carry pollens, they make a kind of glue that can be used to build things, they produce all kinds of things.
And the ones that humans have distinguished with language must probably be only the very most obvious things that the bees are doing and produce,
because this is how our relationship with knowledge tends to work.
We'll see the very obvious things first, and then over time perhaps we will acquire greater sophistication in discriminating between the elements of a thing,
something we can distinguish.
And we constolate those elements, just as we think of our bodies as a collection of organs.
However, do we put the precedence on unity or distinction?
This is an important question when we think about minds.
Is there a shared domain from which all minds emerge?
We look at culture and language that humans preserve and transmit to their children,
knowledge, terms, concepts, models, explanations, descriptions, predictive heuristics, and so on.
And then we can see that there is some external force that we might say, if we were being generous, fertilizes the precursors that exist in children
to produce the complexity in language and in cultivated minds that are the hallmark of our common experience moment to moment while we're awake.
And also produce many of the aspects of our experience when we're dreaming.
So some large portion of our experience depends on input from without, whether that input is news and media and common conversation.
We listen to the conversations of adults as children. This helps us learn language.
We're very interested in acquiring their attention and concern and awareness.
And that's part of how the in-languaging process succeeds.
Alfred Korzybski refers to the transmission of these assets to each new generation if I've got this correct as time binding.
And he suggests that this is one of the primary things that distinguishes the human animal from other intelligent, obviously intelligent social animals on Earth, is that we are time binders.
And it's an interesting theory. It's not the only interesting model that I've heard, but it's a useful one.
And it's not the only interesting model that I've played with.
Yet humans appear to be very unique in terms of our relationship with what I'll call formally representational cognition.
That is, we represent experience in concepts, language and models within or with our mental interiority within what we call our minds.
And this process, here's where things become very interesting to me, although all of this is interesting to me.
This process involves memory. What we refer to as memory. And there are different kinds of this.
So for example, it's not impossible to think of something, a concept that we've been exposed to from biology, the concept of DNA, the oxyribonucleic acid, that encodes apparently, this is the model we use,
that encodes the physical development and many aspects of behavioral inclination for organisms, particularly animals.
So this can be understood as a kind of physically transmissible form of memory, if we wish to think of it that way. That's not the only way to think of it.
But I'm going to speak primarily about, by the way, it's not just DNA that we transmit.
And when a human being arises, it's not just animal DNA that's involved.
I learned long before it was a common topic in science that we're also, our character and abilities and potentials are dramatically affected by the transmission of bacterial simiaunts,
which are probably in turn affected by viral simiaunts. And there are trillions of these in our bodies.
So about half of our cells are bacterial, which means it's not animal DNA, it comes from the world.
And some of these are transmitted to us by our family members that we have contact with, but others are transmitted by contact with the soil, with animals, with insects, with disease, and so on and so forth.
So it's a very, very complex environment in terms of how our DNA acquires structure over time.
And I think we're in the very early days of understanding this, even though all appearances aside.
But what I want to talk about, and it may be difficult to separate these things because clearly our animal cells and our bacterial simiaunts and the contexts in which we exist and have relationships,
all our generative have a generative or an inhibitive effect on what I want to speak of as our mental memory.
The thing I want to say first is that memory in human beings is not merely storage.
It's a complex, ambiently, actively transforming faculty.
It's the basis of most of our mental faculties.
We might have awareness of like hot or cold or hunger or not, but we wouldn't be able to call them anything unless we had memory and language and concepts, or memory of language and concepts, excuse me.
The ancient Greeks, the scent of these flowers is incredible.
They deified memory as nemosity, the mother of the muses, and there are different numbers of muses and types of muses,
but they represent, her children represent the arts of mentalistic behavior.
When I encountered the feathers, my ability to integrate that into an imaginal, a coherent imaginal explanation
depended on me being able to refer to previous, all layers and layers of previously acquired, coherent, accessible,
experience, descriptions, models, words, all of these things.
Now, another model of memory, one of the models that we kind of, humans, we love metaphors, right?
So we metify all of the most important concepts, and one of the common metaphors for memory, again, it's usually metified as something I contain, right?
I'm a container, and within that container is a mind, and an aspect of that mind is memory.
But one of the models of memory, one of the metaphors for it, is that of a library.
And in our modern experience, this has become somewhat confused with the internet.
Now, it should be clear that our own development of minds is related to exposure to networks in general.
And the internet is an abstraction, a derived abstraction, an often mispurposed abstraction, of the networks that we've established and participated in.
The internet is a physical instance of what I earlier referred to as the mimula, right?
The collection of transports between human minds, yeah?
And anything that can control that can profoundly affect the results of human and languaging, enculturation, and mental activity.
