They are mechanical deceptions and misdirections.
So certainly there are such things as like hypnotism and misdirection and mechanical misdirection where it's possible to convince someone that non-physical mind-to-mind transmission has occurred
when in fact it can be demonstrated via the mechanical template that it hasn't.
But the fact that there are mechanical deceptions does not mean that the thing they are presenting as an illusion cannot exist or does not exist.
It simply means that we are capable of being deceived, but we're capable of being deceived about almost anything.
So to me this is an insufficient disproof of non-physical shared mental faculties.
But again, the question's open. My perspective is that there's either a pre-physical domain that all minds participate in.
Most of us think of metaphysics, the word meta means after, so it means beyond physical, but it could also mean before.
I suspect that our experience of mindedness, of having a mind, of participating in consciousness and mental activity depends on a variety of underlying relationships that have been rendered invisible
by our species long traverse into complex representational cognition, which includes things like mathematics and formal logic, rationality, reason, and so on.
Now all of those sub-products depend on our ability to imagine things. They depend on our ability to have sort of transcendental, partly incoherent, or not merely coherent, maybe meta-coherent, mental behavior and activity and experience, like dreaming, for example.
So even to determine whether a thing is logical or not requires something beyond mere logic. It requires that, with which we look upon logic, to determine whether the structure is trustworthy or not and why.
And we often refer to this as the imagination, and our imaging and transmission and movie-making technologies, these are derivations of imagination. These are representations of imaginal experience, and they're very compelling.
As you can see, they're extremely compelling to vast populations of people.
Vast populations of us will spend huge amounts of our lives staring into screens with a look on our faces like we're in trance. And to end trance is, of course, the same word as entrance, just pronounced slightly differently, inflected differently.
And those screens and the networks that connect them are a physical derivation of what I call the mimula, that which connects human minds.
And I want us to think much more creatively and intelligently and purposefully about the human cognisium, the sort of collective body of human consciousness and awareness, and the mimula, those transports that connect human minds.
And across which information or stimuli is transmitted and received, because there's something very interesting going on here, and I'm not going to be able to more than hint at it today.
But there are forces or possibly something we might call entities without necessarily meaning beings, but coherent recurrent structures that appear to be competing to dominate the mimula, the transports between human minds.
And this is true even in a single human being, if there is reasonably such a thing.
If separation has enough precedence that we can meaningfully refer to an individual human being, because if unity has precedence, then the distinction is drawn into question in very important ways.
If in human mental activity, unity has precedence over separation, and obviously the answer is going to be both, right? There are perspectives from which unity clearly has precedence, and there are perspectives from which distinction or separation clearly has precedence.
So I think it's more than both, rather than being one or the other.
And we are certainly habituated to refer to humans and think of them as individuals, and think of their mental activity as something that is unique and personal and secret and local to them.
Though less and less so today with the technologies that are effectively surveilling our moment to moment experience and activity, including our facial expressions and eye movements and perhaps heartbeats and pupil dilation and so on.
It occurs to me that nature, the humans may represent a unique organ of memory and cognition in the family of living beings on earth.
That we may have forgotten an astonishingly sophisticated and beautiful and majestic role that whether or not we were developed to embody, we came to embody, and we have the potential to be.
But this depends on the purposes for which we form and enact minds.
It depends on the contexts in which we develop them.
It depends on us having profoundly intelligent, nurturing, creative, playful, healthy contexts in which to develop and enact mental behaviors.
And at present on earth, there are very few of these.
But one of them is this place that I come every day.
It is filled with organisms that to me represent, they don't represent, they are the living embodiment.
They're not representations.
They're not abstractions.
They're living, they're the living embodiment of the relational and organismal history of this world and probably of time space itself.
They are the face of the origins of human minds and human bodies and intelligence.
They are the ancestors of the unimaginably sophisticated potentials for intelligence that we bring to human birth.
And when I walk in this garden, among these anciently evolved beings and relationships, I begin to remember in a way that's not conceptual or verbal.
I begin to remember the profound potential of my own nature as an organism, as a being, as a participant in the entire history of life on earth, as an expression of that history.
And I feel called to recover and remember the incredible beauty and noble proclivities, potentials and opportunities of our human incarnation.
This is such an unimaginable adventure and it's one in which I hope you will join me.
We have forgotten so much of what it means to be human and yet, thankfully, the living libraries from which our humanity takes its shape and nature are yet with us today.
And I believe that we can return to the fountain of our origins and to the intelligences in nature and recover those faculties directly together.
And this is an adventure that inspires me and gives me hope in a time when the shadows of our technological development vie for dominance and threaten to put an end
to the anciently conserved ecologies and perhaps to many of the most fundamental features of our human nature, potential, intelligence and opportunity.
If we are to give meaningful answer to these problems, we must understand their origins and natures and that's part of my goal in reflecting on them with you today.
These conversations will continue. Thank you for joining me for your patience and your participation for your interest and perhaps most of all for your dreaming and your imagination.
