If you can control the mimula, you can profoundly influence the results of what humans do with minds.
And this is a great danger in our time, something I'm very concerned about.
But in essence, we might suggest, I don't want to assert it and say that this is a fact,
but we might suggest that all of what we think of as mind activity, mental activity, is fundamentally related to doing things with memory.
To recalling something, which by the way transforms it, it's not merely retrieval.
You can't touch something in mental space and not affect it.
So recalling things to mind, which is required for me to even be able to have the ability to speak in this way,
in a way that is coherent and hopefully comprehensible and maybe even possibly somewhat entertaining, if I'm lucky, or skillful,
requires me to be constantly retrieving in a relatively rapid way,
not just the words that I'm speaking,
but also the frameworks that allow me to compose spoken language on the fly.
And this is an incredibly sophisticated array of skills that we have the opportunity to acquire to varying degrees,
depending on where we are born and the contexts in which we are immersed and what we are exposed to and what we have affinities for
and what we have disaffinities for and so on and so forth.
So in this moment, as I'm attempting to reflect on the nature of memory, I have to use all these different features of, or distinguishable features,
of playing with that to which, that upon which I hope to reflect, meaningfully.
But memory is not merely storage and our exposure to computers, I think, has created the potential for vast misunderstanding
about the nature of intelligence, consciousness, cognition, memory, imagination, and so on.
Our minds are not computers, in the same way that our hearts are not merely pumps.
And there's all kinds of arguments around this,
but I will speak from my own understanding and experience.
Our minds are to computers, which are matchsticks are to the sun.
What computers do is a merely mechanical process.
Minds cannot be a merely mechanical process.
And many brilliant mathematicians like Kirk Goodall and philosophers have explored this topic deeply.
David Bohm is one of them.
And realized that whatever our minds may be, they cannot merely be mechanical processes.
And mechanical processes cannot be minds unless we change the meaning of mind, unless we throw away some, perhaps, you know, 80 to 90% of what minds actually are and do,
which one of the things they are is alive, by the way.
We can't compare minds and machines, and we shouldn't.
And this is one of the dangers of language. Language can lead us into false comparisons, metaphors that are clearly either overtly wrong
or actively toxic.
And the idea that what machines do can be intelligence is one of these ideas.
It's a transformation.
It's a very dangerous transformation
of the constellation of ideas that the term intelligence naturally refers to.
So memory is not merely storage, but it underlies all of our,
it underlies the potential of all of the faculties upon which our common mental experience and activity depend.
Change memory, transform memory, you transform those faculties.
Damage memory, you damage those faculties.
Improve memory, you improve those faculties.
And I would argue, for example, that a person who speaks multiple languages has a very different experience of not just linguistic cognition,
but also of identity, because they can triangulate from multiple points of reference,
and each of the terms for a thing will naturally acquire unique connotations in each language.
And connotation is one of the most astonishing aspects of our relationship with linguistic memory.
Although most of us are aware that words have definitions, they have denotations.
The tree denotes these glorious organisms.
But it also has connotations.
We have adopted tree-like structures to process language and information.
And if one graphs a sentence in English, this becomes immediately apparent.
But prior to the onset of English in ancient languages,
some languages, in some languages, individual letters have an extremely complex tree-like structure,
in part because they have spellings, like in Hebrew.
Aleph is spelled, Aleph, Lamed, Pei.
But Lamed has a spelling, and Pei has a spelling.
And so a single letter in Hebrew can have an astonishingly complex internal structure.
And this is something that our modern languages have lost.
But what I wanted to focus on was that terms in English and other languages
don't merely have something they denote, they have things they connote, things that are associated with them,
in our own heart or experience, in our own mental interiority.
So that, for example, we have colloquialism such as free as a bird,
so that birds have the connotation of liberty and have liberation,
and flight has the connotation of freedom.
And then there are sociocultural connotations that we acquire,
which instructure our linguistic and conceptual memories.
But then there are also personal ones, connotations that each of us have acquired during our lifetime.
So if, for example, I ask someone to reflect upon something very deeply intimate and physical such as, say, kissing,
that that will be uniquely connotated for them and may involve imagining previous relationships
or experiences of kissing, their first kiss, feelings and sensations that are oriented with it,
and perhaps events, right, circumstances, situations, things that happened to them or didn't happen with them.
So that any idea or concept that catalyzes our memorial activity can produce astonishingly sophisticated effulgences
from effulgences of memory.
If I begin to imagine something that happened with my first pet,
my imagination will come alive, and an aspect of my mental interiority will begin to do something not entirely unlike dreaming.
In fact, what do we really mean by imagination?
Memory is a precursor to imagination and is one of the fundamental assets that is required to produce imaginal experience.
And when I look around me here, what I'm seeing reminds me of physically instance memory, these forms.
These are like walking through the physical metalog of memory.
Now, we imagine that memory also is stored, even though it isn't merely storage.
We imagine that it's stored and we imagine, you know, we're trained to think that it's stored in the brain.
That's certainly not the only place that it's stored, if it is stored.
And storage is, again, kind of a weird metaphor because anytime we do anything with memory, it changes.
It's got a fluid aspect, and one of the things that we have to do in order to maintain our memories as we grow and change and as we get older is dream.
Dreaming, for reasons we don't yet have a clear grasp on, structures is crucially involved in structuring and preserving memory.
And also in imprinting, which we might call storage, but I think we'd be making kind of a mistake because the store has the connotation of just taking a thing and putting it somewhere so that it can later be retrieved in the same form, essentially, that it was placed into storage.
And yet we have experience of things that when they are put away, quote unquote, transform, right?
And we have experiences of places in which we can put things that transform them.
The idea of cooking a meal is one of them.
The idea of aging a commodity that becomes more valuable with time is another.
But I don't believe our memories are merely storage.
I think they're alive.
I think they're transforming like we are.
They're made of living stuff, and we can't really locate that stuff.
We've had neurosciences still pretty young.
We can do things with the brain.
We can do things to the brain that lead us to believe that these kinds of memories are stored here and there.
And if we damage this tissue or that tissue, we can damage memory.
If we stimulate this tissue or that tissue, we can, you know, memorial imaginations will emerge.
And that's very interesting, and I by no means wish to dismiss that.
And yet that doesn't tell us that that's all that's going on or that's only what's going on.
Somehow to be human is to participate in field phenomenon and our acquisition of language and knowledge and enculturation
and even our ability to structure memory depends in part on our participation in fields.
What would a human infant become if not exposed to those fields?
It's very important this question when we're thinking deeply about topics like memory and mental activity.
Now much of what comprises a mind is really an array of habits of accessing, examining, transforming, and relating with memory.
So one of my points here is that what we mean by a mind is an array of behaviors that are ingrained in us over time,
that we learn, that depend fundamentally on relating with memory.
And we can imagine that if our memories were somehow to be destroyed, there would be very little mind-like activity,
although we might still do some of the behaviors that we use to acquire the precursors that will be stored and transformed in memory.
We might still do some of that. It would just fail all the time.
It wouldn't produce its ordinary results if our memories were no longer functional or were unavailable to us.
So awareness isn't the same thing as mindedness.
As I said, we can be aware of hot or cold or things like this without having any real mental activity or need to have a picture or a description or a name or anything like that.
When we think of minds, we tend to think of consciousness, although it's important, I believe, to include dreaming,
and maybe even to see our waking minds as a peculiar subset of something that is mysterious.
If we make a big circle and call this like the mystery, we make a littler circle in there and call this dreaming an imagination,
and then we make a smaller circle in there, well, no, where do you put the mind?
You put it outside of dreaming and imagination, or you put it inside dreaming and imagination in this model, I'm not sure.
But all of these things are deeply related, and to imagine or even to try to remember something is, in a way, related, in my view, to dreaming.
There's a question of what has precedence, right? Does imagination have precedence to dreaming, or does dreaming have precedence to imagination?
It's an open question. I can think of arguments for kind of either side, depending on what my purpose is.
But because our mindedness is an array of learned habits and behaviors, it can be radically transformed in a number of ways.
It can be intentionally transformed by exploration and learning and creativity on our own part, and creativity is a crucial factor there.
It's non-trivial, but it's also transformed and affected by our exposure to culture and context.
And most of the culture and context in which many of us are engaged is relatively toxic, I think.
It's unfriendly to the underpinnings of memory, imagination, creativity, intelligence.
It's unfriendly to life.
And it's very coercive, and much of the culture to which we're exposed is mind-narrowing, and if I may be so bold, kind of soul-killing.
It's not the vast results of our modern supercultures are very dangerous, in my view.
And thus we may see a radical uptick in the incidence of problems that we associate with damage to memory.
Problems like dementia and Alzheimer's, although that's a very peculiar topic because it's not entirely clear whether anything other than the genetic variant of that disease truly corresponds with that diagnosis, but that's a sophisticated topic.
My main point is that as we offload features that would have been living within our minds to machines for the sake of convenience, we are losing access to some of the originary faculties that contribute to memory and imagination, creativity and intelligence.
And that process seems to be a cascade with ongoing developmental repercussions that are largely very negative.
Ancient philosophers were deeply concerned about the onset of writing because prior to the onset of writing, knowledge had to be transmitted orally.
In other words, the mimula, the physical mimula, was primarily oral, the connection between minds.
And because it was oral, it contained the living music of living voices like this recording does.
Those voices went silent when writing became possible.
And over time, the unimaginably sophisticated oral and song traditions of ancient peoples were lost.
Because they could not successfully compete against the capacity to record and store ideas, knowledge and stories in codes, in written code, in writing.
Now writing is a profoundly astonishing capability for an animal to have, but it's not all upside.
And most of the cognitive and technologies that emulate cognition that we've developed over time have very severe downsides that we've not, that as a people, as a species, we are not examining intelligently.
In fact, we may not yet possess the tools to understand what we refer to as advancements in culture.
And it seems to me that as these advancements occur, something else is declining, right?
It's not just writing as an advancement as it's usually presented, because the onset of writing heralded the death of oral culture.
And that was a catastrophic loss.
And one that can't be, it cannot be amended, we cannot resolve that loss.
What's gone from the oral traditions is largely gone forever, and particularly from the song traditions of ancient peoples.
But also from their oral linguistic traditions, the encounter with writing transforms minds, it transforms language.
And so too does our relationship with machines in general, and particularly with the capacity to electronically store, transmit, view, share, pay attention to data objects on screens.
Now, I would argue that many of these technologies, especially our transmission technologies, are abstractions of mental experiences and behavior that we had access to long before their onset.
So I would argue that long before we had radio, there were non-verbal, apparently non-physical transmission and reception assets associated with human minds and human mental experience.
In other words, telepathy.
I have experienced and seen many situations and circumstances that convince me personally, I'm not trying to convince you, that there are non-physical transports in the mimula between human minds.
And they are not merely, they are not merely the results of, nah, that would still be physical.
I was going to say information embedded in contexts and then retrieved from contexts. That's part of the mimula.
But my point is just that I strongly suspect that what humans have tended to do with their technological advancement
is to make derivations of previously experienced phenomenon for convenience.
So before there was radio, there was something we participated in that was akin to direct mind-to-mind transmission over distance and maybe an increase in distance produced an increased likelihood of this kind of transmission.
And that before we had screens and televisions and computers and the internet, we used to dream together. We would be in each other's dreams and remember it.
And I've had this experience with others. So I know, at least for myself, I know this to be possible.
Our technologies are emulating faculties that are being subtracted from our common experience, opportunity, familiarity, from our developmental library.
And that is something I hope we can learn to amend together. That's part of why I'm concerned with this topic of, you know, what is mental activity? What is the mind?
There's something, again, that is to the internet what a galaxy is to a grain of sand.
And I suspect that what we call our minds depends on contact and immersion in that and on coherent relation with it within that field.
Now, I may be proven wrong. I'm not claiming my ideas are the best ones or the good ones or anything.
I'm merely trying to share with you some of the results of my own exploration.
And I'm interested in other perspectives and other opinions.
And it may turn out that, though I very much doubt it, that all of the mimula, all of the transports between human minds are physical.
There are no non-physical transports. But I think that extremely unlikely for all kinds of reasons.
So one of the things that I'm deeply concerned about is that as we convert previously accessible and available forms of mental adventure, creativity, imagination, communication, insight, acquisition, learning.
As we transform these faculties into external, mechanically derived conveniences, we're losing access to them.
And in fact, we may come in time to simply not believe they exist.
No one who has directly experienced mind-to-mind communication will doubt that it exists.
But people who've never experienced it have no reason to believe in any such thing.
And there are a vast array of senses that are natural to our human form, that are catastrophically inhibited, punished, reviled, denigrated, argued against in many of our modern contexts.
And that's not the only problem.
There's a separate problem, which is that bizarre sort of para-spiritual nonsense religions have proliferated to such a degree that there's ignorance on both sides of the divide, right?
There's ignorance whether we say, for example, all communication between human minds has to have a physical transport.
There's all kinds of nonsense on that side, including the idea that we don't actually have experience at all, that what we think of as our experience or even our mental behavior is largely kind of a byproduct of metabolic activity in the organ we call the brain.
This is a pseudo-scientific idea that's popular among some particularly deranged people.
Even if that were true, it couldn't be the brain by itself because the body exists. There's no brains in boxes, right? The body is a unity first, and the brain is an organ in that unity.
So the entire unity has to be involved in mental phenomenon and behavior and activity and experience.
So there are people that think, you know, it's got to be only physical transports in the Mimula. There's nothing trans-physical going on.
And then there are people that are thinking they're nonsensically bizarre non-physical phenomenon for which they have extremely unbelievable explanations and descriptions.
And one of the things I find interesting about this is that I know people who can directly demonstrate non-ordinary cognitive phenomenon.
They can directly demonstrate, and again we have a two-sided problem here.
So they can directly demonstrate what appears to be mind-to-mind communication.
And some of them have really strange explanations and descriptions of how and why this is going on.
And some of them have relatively more coherent ideas and explanations.
But again, we have two sides of this phenomenon as well.
So if someone can directly demonstrate mind-to-mind communication in some way, let's say they know something about an activity I did today that would be impossible for them to know and that I have not told them.
The male Great Horned Owl, there's a pair that live, that hang out here during the sunset and they're communicating at the moment.
And I remember this because it made such a great impression on me when I first encountered it.
And here's another aspect of memory, right? We become impressed.
This is if we collect impressions and they transform each other within us and our minds and the capacities of our minds to be or do things.
But in any case, back to my point, there are two kinds of people who can demonstrate something that resembles direct mind-to-mind communication.
One of which is trustworthy and authentic and another of which is an illusion.
So there are people, for example, like what we call mentalists and people like Darren Brown, who's a mind-manipulating performer.
And one of Darren's claims, if I understand it correctly, is that telepathy and things like this can't be real because he can show,
he can directly demonstrate phenomenon that are more astonishing and that appear to be telepathic or psychic, yet are not.
