I have no idea.
I mean, I can tell you what the scientists think.
No, what if they're right?
Yes.
This before there are horses, right?
Oh, 5,000 to 8,000 years ago.
That's what I was looking for.
Yeah, at least.
At least to have domesticated dogs.
Here.
And not only that, but like, I think it's even longer than that because here you have like Eniskim at sites,
which are buffalo stones.
They're like these fossils that look like buffaloes, but they're part of a ceremony that became part of the beaver bundle after the beaver bundle already existed.
And those things are found, you know, those Eniskim are found at bison sites here in Alberta going back like nine, 10,000 years.
So I think it's all the beaver bundles even older than that.
Like, you know, it's very, very old.
It's the first medicine bundle in the Blackfoot tradition.
I know it like nobody knows a lot of people out there don't know what medicine bundles are, whatever.
But, you know, in this case, without going through the whole the whole origin of that.
It's really a bunch of skins from animals who gave knowledge to humans in a treaty agreement situation.
Yeah, this is the humans and the animals coming together in relation.
Yeah, under the auspices of an agreement that they have together that they form together and the bundles the embodiment of those agreements if I'm understanding something.
Yep.
Okay.
Yeah. And so, you know, that bundle is very fluid.
New, like animals bring new things in animals and plants bring new things into the bundles through humans.
And then humans have experiences that the beaver bundles end up kind of like,
somebody has has an experience where they themselves are given some kind of very important knowledge from an animal like in a spiritual way, like they have a dream about it.
And it's vivid and the animal tells them in their head.
It's talking to, you know, like, and a beaver bundle owner might look at that person and watch them for a little bit and see what happens with that.
And if it seems to be that they that they think that that their experience was very valid.
If it's not something beneficial that should, you know, that the people should adopt, then the beaver man woman might go to that person and and asked to kind of buy that gift into the bundle.
And so the beaver bundles constantly absorbing things and then and then putting things out to so if they have somebody has that new experience.
Where, you know, like what has happened, the thunder, you know, the fun, the thunder came in conflict with people.
And the humans relationships with animals is what kind of saved them from that conflict to animals dealt with a thunder.
On behalf of the people, the crows in particular.
And the thunder was made to kind of make amends to the people for for something it had, you know, it had done.
So it was giving the people a bundle.
It would protect them from it, you know, not only thunder, but it's close associates which included bears.
And
in order for that person's experience to be legitimated and brought kind of into the Orthodox tradition so that the bundle was like validated by the community.
The beaver bundle would feed it and give some things from the beaver bundle into that bundle to validate.
So beaver bundles kind of the hub of, you know, because the original what matters is the treaty between the living beings here.
That is the beaver bundle.
And also it's a kind of library of transfers.
Yeah, totally transfer meaning when something profoundly sacred powerful or meaningful is given out or brought in.
Yeah.
It's a ceremonial process to transfer of course.
Yeah.
Okay, let me ask you to pause for right here. Can you hold your thought.
The reason is the recordings about to end so I have to restart it to continue recording.
Cool. So hold your thought and we'll be right back.
