corvids, well the crows and the ravens at least.
If the Jays form extended communities, I've not seen them.
I know that magpies seem to, but what I realized when looking at the raven was,
first of all, obviously this bird is not being preened
and it cannot remove the ticks, but any other creature could.
Any of those Jays, any, any of those ravens, excuse me, could have preened it
and they would have received a tasty nutritious insect meal by so doing.
At least, you know, in my thinking. Confused as it may be.
So I worked extra hard to make sure that raven got some peanuts.
And having fed them and sung to them, I walked up the,
I walked up the shoreline where was I walking north, I guess, can't remember,
probably. I walked up the shoreline and I acquired an entourage of ravens.
So either, you know, if someone were watching me, they would either think this is a magically potent
person, very few people would think that, or they would wonder why they wouldn't have a conjecture,
they just wonder what the hell's going on here, or they would intelligently infer that I had given
them food. It's pretty hard to get a peanut to the girls in the little crow enclave,
but what I noticed the other day that I thought was great was that it appeared to me
that one of the males cashed a peanut in his
craw, and then when the other crows weren't on the ground,
exuded the peanut for the bird that I imagined to be his sister,
or could be his mate to consume, and I thought that was really cool.
You know, life is very challenging and difficult and much more so in a world filled with machines.
And perhaps somewhat naively, I believe, I'm an extreme altruist, an exalt,
in Andrea Kuzhevsky's nomenclature.
I generally will travel in the direction of mutual benefit naturally,
in any way that I can understand how to do so. My heart is more intelligent than my brain at this,
much more intelligent, and so I get confused by my thoughts.
Often, I make mistakes.
There's an explanation for the complexity of the human brain that I prefer,
which is that we might not be the Alpha Symbiont, and what I mean by that is
something really weird. I don't mean the Symbiont that dominates
over all others, or is the most important. I mean the Symbiont that naturally becomes the
summation lens of all of the other intelligences around it, all the forms of intelligence produced
by starfish, fungal, microbial, vegetal, animal, land creatures, water creatures, air creatures,
living place beings, sky beings, all these intelligences. And
you know, I think the humans have this role.
There's a bunch of very intense child signaling going on there.
Pause for a moment here while a loud noise doesn't get recorded.
It seems to me that I've said this before in a very real sense. The human species is
the arbiter of the well-being or destruction of everything that isn't too small for us to see,
and much of what is.
So whether or not
some creator god divinely mandated that we were the shepherds of life on earth,
it turns out to be the case by fiat or by function anyway.
Now, I think there are other similar Alpha Symbionts like us on earth,
and some of the microbial ones might be far more profound in the scope of their relationships
than we tend to be.
Clearly, in the waters, the whales and dolphins represent a living summation lenses of
the aquatic intelligences.
How ironic that humans would slaughter them thereby denying themselves access to those
organs of intelligence, perception, and relation.
For what? For the commodities their dead bodies produce? Those are
worth pennies on the trillions of dollars of what is being disposed of, as usual,
for humans trapped in representational cognition.
But yes, our form has incredibly unique, monumentally profound faculties and abilities
that are disposed of almost entirely by our representational behavior, cognition.
Our great forgetting, our amnesia,
our actively self-generating amnesia.
So I like to think that the complexity of the physical organ that we refer to as our brains,
pretending it's distinct, again pretending that
obvious, it should be blatantly obvious that again, one organism first,
the singularity of the organism has precedence to any organ by many orders of magnitude so that
if you say the word brain, you're actually referring to the entire body
and the extended environmental relationships and the entire history of life on earth and
the potential and future of life on this planet.
Because there is no brain without a heart, you don't have a brain without kidneys,
no skin, no brain, no mouth, no brain.
There are certain organs you can do away with and still have a brain,
but not most of them.
And the humans are doing the same damn thing to the earth, right?
They are ripping the organs of the earth out, selling them on the black market
for cars and guns and bombs and shit and terror and torture and cages and awfulness, the species.
I can't tell if this guy's yelling at himself or if he's yelling at his phone.
So yeah, I mean, if the earth is a single animal and the humans are an organ of that animal,
they are an organ destroying organ of that animal.
Most of us have no desire to be anything resembling that
and ordinarily we would have a fairly minimal and perhaps relatively net positive effect
on the biosphere and the environment, particularly if our population were limited.
But also, if the object population that we produce were dramatically limited,
this is interesting.
Many people complain about the human population, certainly it's a problem,
but the actual problem seems to me not to be the number of human bodies,
but rather what the masses of them tend to do and one of those things is madly proliferate objects
and thus create from living beings and places, effectively garbage and machines.
So I think there's another explanation for the complexity of our brains,
which is that the meta organism that earth is naturally produces in her organs,
complex metasymbionts capable of astonishing feats of symbiotic sensing, relation, cognition,
participation, so forth. And the more of those the earth has, the more alive her own
life is. This creates webs of jewels in the net of her transcendentions,
expanding it dramatically to whatever degree those meta metacognitives and meta symbionts
remain true to the beautiful and noble and heroic missions of living beings
on a delicate world in time space.
There's a, my foot, there's a little plastic elephant,
or maybe it's a pig.
And I wonder how many billions of those we've produced while the elephants and pigs were
slaughtered. You know, at the species level, we are deadly poison to living worlds presently
in our current. Whatever is orienting our groups is malignant, fundamentally malignant,
and life despising, intelligence despising, because any intelligence that tears itself
to shreds must fail to qualify. And similarly, any intelligence that attacks its own foundations
in relation and organism must fail to qualify. It's not clear at all. Individual humans are,
can be relatively intelligent. Small groups of bonded humans can be preternaturally intelligent,
but large disoriented cohorts of humans tend to be omnicidal in our time. And that's a game with a
and that's a game with a short future. So one thing that I want to encourage you to do,
and I'm going to try and take my own advice here, is get together with a small group of other
intelligent humans and come up with a mission that you all believe in and go on, have that
adventure together in the living world. Very hard to emulate that sound.
It's funny, there's ravens right above me.
And one has to wonder if, right, if this is accidental.
It's a pair.
Now I can't tell what their signals mean. So I can't really tell
if they're upset.
Right, I can't really tell if they're upset at my behavior. I've been circling a tree.
If they're curious.
Or something else.
If we want to experience the potentials of our intelligence, our dreaming aspects,
our transcendence as human beings,
there are paths where this can be pursued in isolation.
But if you want an accelerant,
go with trusted others into adventure, meaningful relation, meaningful roles,
nicknames, private lexicons,
explore the palm that unites the fingers and you will never be disappointed.
You might have misadventures, things may go wrong.
But even from those you will learn very profoundly and quickly and you will develop
new senses, new abilities, new perspectives.
So it turns out the guy that was yelling nearby is yelling into his phone.
I wish you beautiful lives and ways, companions, adventures, love and play and creativity.
And I look forward to learning together again very soon. Thank you for joining me. Bye-bye for now.
