Hello everybody. Welcome. I appreciate all of you who listen to my recordings and it
would help me a lot if you subscribe or like them or make a comment or ask a
question. My engagement is embarrassingly minute. So to reach more people, whatever
help you care to lend would be greatly appreciated. But I'm glad you're just
here and that I'm here. We're both still alive. Apparently we're breathing. I'm
crossing urban streets on foot, which is vastly more dangerous than we like to
think. It turns out that although there are many explanations for the complexity
of our human brains, I strongly suspect many of them are either completely
wrong or put the precedents on the wrong thing. Obviously social cognition is one
of them and it would be amazing if we developed complex brains to handle
social cognition. Only to discover that that would cause us to simulate, this is
one of the explanations for human brain complexity, that would cause us to simulate
another which would become the self a fiction. Because similar to one of my
fingers deciding that it is real and the rest of the hand is well whatever that
is, we would become catastrophically misguided thereafter, continue to produce
simulations, as well as representational culture, right, where we with each thing we
lose direct participation and relation with. We form a token and then thereafter
relate with the token instead of resurrecting the relationship and the
participation. And so we end up in an endless thirst trap where the more
representations we make, the more we are suffocating for participation and
meaningful roles and relationships, and this leads to a descending nightmare of
self-amplifying, what is the word, poverty, impoverishment. And this seems to
match up pretty damn good with what I see going on. But the social cognition
argument is powerful, the problem is it leads to an endless cascade of disasters
as we stop relating with and in pod groups in which our identity and purpose
of motivations are useful, celebrated, effective, alive, vital, creative, playful,
joyful, fulfilling, rewarding. You know get together with a team of three people
and do anything meaningful, right. The rewards at the end of the day are off the
scale compared to any possible representation you could form. Yes, this
is all the change I have. The large coin is a dollar. You're welcome. That poor old
woman, my goodness. She must be 70 and she's living on the street. You see what
ends up happening, right, like without meaningful cohorts that are real, our
elderly end up dying alone in boxes or we're still on the street. And what do I
mean by our elderly? Okay, I get the problem with the language. I do. We could just say
the elderly, which we will all become. So that's us in the future. Okay, what else?
Where am I here? Social cognition, meaningful groups, pods. So in our situation, what's
the antidote here? So the first is to teach each other to understand the
representational gambit's foundations, right, which involve the simulation of a
separate self and then the inaction of a separable self that becomes an isolated
self. Ask yourself this question. I'll ask myself the same question. How many times
per month do I directly physically engage meat space with other humans for
meaningful purposes that I trust and are beautiful and noble? So first of all, how
often do I engage with meat space others for anything? Myself, with a couple of
trenchant exceptions, one being somebody I live with, the number of times per month
that happens for me is zero. And that's part of why I make these videos, because
this is a way for me to participate, to work my vocabulary, which is important
because my vocabulary is one of my as a writer and someone who values
articulate, intelligent speech. My vocabulary is crucially important. I've
worked hard to develop it over my life, although it was natural for me to do that
because of my interests. And also to create a context where I'm doing something
meaningful in the day to me that may provide benefit for distance others, some
of whom I know, some of whom I love, many of whom are unknown to me. There's just
sort of people who manage to find my channel. But this is not particularly
crucially important to my point. I'm merely trying to say that ask yourself
the question. How often over some interval, say 90 days, are you able to get
together with other humans and enact your humanity intelligently, creatively,
meaningfully for a purpose you believe in? And even if today in our time, right,
circa 2024, that's a virtual get together. Let's count those. We'll open the
aperture from meat space only to virtual context. But you can see the radical
difference, right? Suppose that I'm just going to pick something incredibly
trivial. Three neighbors once a month get together, wander around their
neighborhood together, and pick up trash. Not particularly heroic, but powerful
because they're doing something they believe in and they will communicate and
act as a single member, right? Act like a hand. In fact, they'll literally be
picking things up. It's very hand-like. And of course it turns out that the hand
is one of the best metaphors for human togetherness and unity that you can
possibly come up with. It might be the best because there's nothing...
It's a part of your physical body, right? So, hello. It was developed by
evolution. So the model is not a human intellectual model. It's an evolutionary
model. It's older than old. It's a really good model for the actual nature of human
existence, being, interiority. I noticed that the first thing that happens when
you destroy human social groups is that you get individual fingers attempting to
do things to enact their humanity in ways that require a hand. I'd love to see
any one attempt to use any of our tools. Though, you know, they might succeed with
a few. Try and use pliers with a single finger. I mean, try to do anything with a
single finger. You might be able to sort of play some kind of musical instrument
as long as it didn't require your breath. You could plunk your way along
something with a single finger, presuming that you had a hand that the
finger was on the end of. The way that our systems work is if they amputate the
fingers and then scream at them for not being able to do all the things that a
hand could do. So, obviously, what I'm trying to say here is that the embodiment
and fulfillment of our potentials as human beings naturally requires communion.
Potting up. You will see very few intelligent animals. There are exceptions
that don't pot up. One exception would be octopuses. The other polarity are the
organisms that form supergroups. These would be creatures that form hives, ants,
bees, wasps, certain species of spider form massive web communities.
Unclear. It may be that the fundamental problem with our species is just that we
form misguided supergroups.
So, what was I thinking originally here? Yes. All right, so we've actually, I've
actually covered much more ground than I was imagining when I began my talk. What
was inspiring me? Okay, so I'm going to circle way back here. I sometimes form
relationships with animals by offering them food. There are certain animals with
which it is less dangerous for both of us than it would be with others. So, for
example, I am currently in the San Francisco Botanical Gardens. The
coyotes here are reasonably well known to me. I see them commonly. I could easily
form relationships with them by bringing them some meat. Any transaction between
humans and wild things, especially city humans, will produce a lot of danger for
both participants. Primarily because the human is dumb about what is important
for the animals. Don't know if you heard that. That was a coyote. Let's see if it,
yeah, it's yipping. All right, let's examine this problem here. Okay, this is a
really good, really good instance of sync, synchronicity. It's crucial for all animals
to avoid danger. And one of the ways they avoid danger is by avoiding calling attention to
themselves. There are some situations under which it is relatively more safe to call
attention to oneself and others under which it's extremely dangerous. There's only one
animal here, around here, that is a threat to the coyote. And that's homo sapiens. If
I were to begin feeding a coyote and I could delude myself into thinking this is a good
way to establish a relationship with them and to nourish that relationship literally,
physically. Okay, the reason that coyote is calling out at full volume in broad daylight.
Very dangerous thing for it to do is that there are sirens. So the humans make a machine
that mimics a signal that essentially causes, nearly forces the coyote to reveal its location.
I mean, if you wanted to hunt coyotes, you could just bring a device with you that produced
sirens and they would light up their location with calls because they're physically, to
some degree, they are physically unable to resist that stimuli. Hi.
Now, if I were to begin feeding coyotes around here, what would naturally happen is that I would
interfere with their natural tendency, one might call it, at least around here, to avoid contact
with humans. Now, if I live, if I were not a city dweller, and I lived in the wilderness,
and I wanted to have a relationship with the coyotes, there are a number of different ways
I might go about forming that relationship. Perhaps the most important, but least blatant
is to imagine that the coyotes form an emissary to the humans, and I form an emissary from the
humans. And in my imagination, and perhaps in my dreaming, me and the emissary meet and we exchange
protections and potencies and medicine and so forth. Humans are unlikely, modern particularly,
unlikely to pursue that kind of connection. Many of them would not believe that it's real.
But that would be a good way. And then, perhaps I could ask the coyote emissary questions,
and it could ask me questions, and it might even have things to say to my people, things
that wish to be communicated to my people about their people and our ancient union. Because
some animals, synanthropes particularly, have had more than a million years of relationship with
homo sapiens. And you could say, well, our species really isn't that old, are you sure? Yes. Our
species isn't that single age old, or it probably is. I don't know what the current model is of
our estimated age of homo sapiens. Probably measured in flat years, though, which there never
were. So our age is actually the time since the appearance of homo sapiens in the records,
so to speak, times the number of humans who have lived one year, right? And for each year,
we'd have to add age. So our actual age, and the age of our relationships with synanthropes,
is absurdly enormous. Bees, ants, wasps, mice, rats, porcupines, possums, skunks, moles,
gophers, house cats, house dogs, coyotes, wolves, blue jays, magpies, sparrows, hawks, eagles, raptors,
owls, crows and ravens, spiders. All of these are synanthropes. These are creatures that prosper
and are used to the proximity of human symbionts, companions. Extended body is the concept here.
Not, Darren has crow friends. Extended body, I am crow, I am blue jay, I am sparrow, I am spider.
These organisms, as they interact with me, extend my intelligence. They extend my senses
dramatically. I will learn things from observing them that are formally impossible for me to
discover on my own, quote unquote. So in a sense, what I am advocating here is the formulation
not merely of a human relational hand-like situation, but a very complex hand-like situation
involving many non-humans, including the non-synanthropes, presuming that there is any
such thing. Because synanthropy is a matter of degree, not necessarily
a binary polarization. Either is a synanthrop or isn't. If you take the planet as a whole
and you realize that your comparator is what we know of time-space,
so if you take, sorry I am having an actual exchange with synanthropes right now, again,
ironic, or synchronous, or both,
if you take time-space as your comparator, then the earth is basically like a little
droplet of water in a vast desert, and that droplet, there is nothing that isn't synanthropic there.
Because essentially from this perspective, from the perspective of time-space toward the earth,
rather than the earth out, you know, the human, out to nature, nature out to time-space, which is
the perspective we are trained to take by our language and its categorical gambits, its absurd
and stupidifying categorical gambits. The whole package of lies that comes along with English
courtroom mind, war mind, anthropocentricity, terracentricity, all of these things. So from
time-space toward earth, what you obviously have here, and if you're not capable of thinking this
way, I will argue you're barely capable of thinking at all, is what you have here is a single organism
that takes many forms. Now it may turn out to be absolutely a physical fact that that's what
you've got here. One imagines, for example, a space-faring organism that I'll call starfish.
It naturally swims between the stars in a protoform. That protoform could be incredibly
profusely transcendent, not merely intelligent, and it may only be a cellular form and still be
transcendent. There's no reason to believe bacteria are probably not representationally intelligent,
but it's unlikely that we could get the forms of intelligence we're familiar with in human beings
without them. And so which is superior, right? Is the origin superior or is the result superior?
Well, once you decide that one of them has to be superior, you're already having courtroom mind.
My point is just that it may well be that a single organism was primordial here and that
everything that you see that lives on this planet is actually starfish's morphs, right?
Morphs of starfish, one thing, one organism. It may also be that there were multiple forms of starfish
that lived, that came here, dwelt here. There might have been some competition,
stuff that looks like war, but isn't.
But yeah, you got one organism here. So you should definitely be able to think that way,
and you should probably think that way in precedence to thinking, oh, these are all
separate Darwinianly competitive morphs. That last thing can't be true.
Primarily it's the problem with the idea of competition. There's no such thing as
competition without symbiosis. If you don't have cooperation, you don't get forms complex enough
to compete. So the emphasis on competition is almost certainly a bad move. All right,
if I feed the coyotes in the botanical gardens, it will reduce their suspicion and avoidance
of humans in general. What that will mean in very short order here is that the coyotes I feed
will eventually realize, ah, humans are a source of food. Food is difficult and dangerous to get here.
I'm going to occasionally approach humans. Some of those humans will have children.
Some of them may have dogs. And coyotes will generally see small dogs. Small coyotes,
smaller coyotes, will see small dogs. Actually, all coyotes. Most coyotes will see small dogs as prey.
That's a good meal that's fairly easy to obtain. So they may go after those small dogs. And
that will result almost certainly in the humans killing them, particularly here in the botanical
gardens. Similarly, if I feed the blue jays peanuts, which they love,
that signal
resembles playing a siren in the territory of coyotes.
An analogy would be
dropping $100 bills along a busy freeway. Why a busy freeway? Well, for the blue jays,
many of them live in the hunting territory of Hawks. And so when I come with my peanuts,
it doesn't shut off their vigilance, but it radically reduces it.
It's funny, I've learned to recognize
the shadow of the birds that I know
so that sometimes I can detect them behind me.
So if I put peanuts out, and if I'm not careful about it, and I'm not attentive,
and I had to learn this by error, by making bad mistakes, costly mistakes,
then I'm interfering with their vigilance.
Who's responsibility is it? It's not a courtroom. This is a communal animal, me plus
the birds. So I also love the Hawks, and I have some relationship with them as well.
But I don't want them to eat my blue jay friends. Obviously, I want them to get fed.
Now, all of this is very complex. The problem is that
