I am not aware, ordinarily,
of the environmental, relational, historical, biological necessities of blue jay life, or hawk
life, or coyote life. And so if I wander into that, stumbling around like a magical thinking human,
an indictment that I certainly deserve, but I'm now beginning to understand in a richer way I like
to think I'm learning, I will cause harm where my goal is to have beneficial relations,
mutually beneficial relations. And that will be emotionally painful for me, because
my desires are not utilitarian. I am aware that the animal intelligences, including the insects,
will, in a sense, make offerings of intelligence, dreaming, communal identity.
They will benefit me. They will try to figure out what will benefit the one who is our friend.
And many of those offerings will not be ordinary. It's not like they're going to bring me cash money,
though, in the case of a representational animal like, say, a particularly precocious raven,
such a thing could take place. It could bring me objects.
So if I want to actually honor the relationship, I have to, to some degree,
protect the living beings from the rapacious and omnicidal stupidity of my species.
And also, my own ignorance.
It will be difficult for me to form physical relationships with the coyotes in this garden
without feeding them. If I feed them, it is very likely that will lead to them being shot by
Parks and Rack, or whoever does animal control, whatever. Parks and Rack will call animal control
to come out and even nice, quote unquote, basically meaning obliterate them.
You know, more stories of their stupidity. So one night I was sitting in my room
and out one of my windows, I noticed a family of coyotes, excuse me, a family of raccoons. Boy,
here's a, if you want to talk about courage, motivation, intelligence, difficulty, heroism,
one, one stand out, exemplar of this would be raccoon mothers in urban settings.
There's no one to babysit their children.
The children, like any children, are precocious, playful, curious, very difficult to orient.
Meanwhile, this mother has to bring them through places with dogs and cars and broken bottles
and poison and every kind of dogs, every kind of threat, cats, you can imagine coyotes every night.
Every night that mother is going to bring their children through a battlefield of things that will
kill them and her. So one night I'm in my room, it's late, quiet and I hear the chortling of the
children. Naturally stupid as I am and also, you know, at that point prone to magical thinking.
I emulate the sound back to them. What happens? The family of raccoons stops dead in the middle
of the street trying to determine the source of that sound. Meanwhile, a car doing 40 miles an hour
comes up the street and somehow I think that even though they were in the car's path when it passed,
I think they all managed to survive unscathed, I am not sure.
One of them might have been struck by the undercarriage of the car.
However, if that were true, there should have been a dead raccoon nearby in the morning probably,
baby. In any case, if you want to imagine me cringing to the core of my being
for a moment, you know, I thought I was being playful and human and intelligent and recognizing
them and relating with them. What I did not realize is they are on a street.
There is traffic in the street. This is why I made the metaphor of dropping $100 bills on the freeway.
When I put out peanuts for the Blue Jays,
I had best be complicit in their survival concerns, vigilance, protocols.
I had best understand something deep about these because if I don't, I am giving them
an irresistible stimulus in a terrain where there are hawks.
Not only that, there are most likely, nearly all of these would be males by the way,
in case you think gender doesn't matter. There are most likely people who would kill the Blue Jays
for fun. So once they learned, for example, that you could bring a Blue Jay to your hand with a peanut,
they would do so for nefarious purposes.
The other day, I was in a part of the garden where
there is a Scrub Jay that knows me. By the way, that Jay remembered me. I fed it one time
like five years ago, and that Jay remembered me every time it saw me thereafter.
The animals have, their memories are unencumbered by representation, so they have a lot of
memory resource to enact. It's funny what a long road it's taking me to get back to my
original motivational thought here that started this topic.
So for some birds, the appearance of a peanut is so compelling
that they become like their nervous system actually divides against itself and their
ordinary instincts for self and companion protection at least briefly collapse into
must get that peanut before something else does. And so this messes up their vigilance activities.
Now, a brief, you know, a brief
divergence from protocol probably won't get you killed, at least not the first time.
Oh, yeah, see, I was just feeding them and a hawk has come. One of the coopers has come to see
Oh, it was turned away from me now. It's hunting.
I respect that hawk and have felt its talons
because, again, ignorance
got in trouble with the hawks.
So there are some kinds of stimulus and, you know, humans have the same problem.
This is why social media has become a terrifying manipulative disease.
You can see that the goal is to capture attention, which has for some time been the new form of cash.
And this is natural for an organism that's collapsing away from participatory relation
meaningful roles and relationships into representations, money, porn, social media,
shows, video games, etc.
The coyote can't help it. It's not powerless, but it's nearly powerless when the siren is near.
It directly captures its nervous system. And this is what happens to us
with our technologies. We undergo nervous system capture.
Now there's a blue jay in a part of the garden that remembers me from a long time ago, a couple
weeks ago. I was, I gave it a peanut and because it's a male and it knows me, it will come to my hand.
Now, by the way, that's a particularly interesting situation. Let me explain why.
If I put the peanut on the ground or on a branch,
the jay must do if it wants to live. It's going to check maybe between eight and 30 vectors
before it moves. And then when it lands, it will recheck those vectors.
Ordinarily, the jay will have a companion up high that it can directly check with to see
if it can't, if there's something it can't see yet. And this complex
participated relationship of mutual positive vigilance keeps both jays safe
relatively well.
Now, if instead I am aware that there's a male and the male knows me,
I hold out a peanut in my hand.
The male can be relatively certain
that it can cross the interval between its perch and my palm safely because it's a very
short interval and it's fast. And grabbing the peanut from my outstretched hand,
it doesn't have to do a bunch of vector checking because a hawk is very unlikely
to attempt to take a jay from a human palm.
Unless the hawk has previously succeeded at such an endeavor.
So, in a way, the male's willingness to come to my hand
is a bit more safe
than coming to ground.
What's she shooting?
Oh, I see. Sparrows are eating seeds in a bush.
Interesting that we call photography shooting.
Leads to a whole other conversation wherein
human vision is understood to be a complex series of rays that travel out from the eye,
bouncing back from the things these rays touch.
So, in a sense, the male that comes to my hand is fairly safe
and as long as such interactions between me and the birds are infrequent,
it's unlikely to produce their death unless there's something wrong with the peanuts.
Or, conceivably but awfully unlikely,
they acquire some microbe from my skin surface or something.
So, I was feeding this male and there were a couple of men approaching and they saw the bird come to my hand.
And they said, do you speak with birds?
And I playfully said, doesn't everyone?
They laughed and made some comment.
Like, well, I don't see the birds coming to the hands of people.
Here's a male scrub jay that knows me. So now,
I will do the thing that I was just talking about where the bird comes to hand.
And he lands briefly on my hand when he grabs the peanut. Now, if there's a female around,
I can put, I'll usually put a peanut out for her.
So that she can also have the benefit of
what a birder I know called bird heroine, which he meant peanuts. So yeah, the guys said this to me and
I said, well,
peanut is a language understood by many birds and they laughed.
You know, the humans do some degree of monkey see monkey do.
So additionally, if I'm out in public and I'm witnessed relating with animals by giving them food,
creates problems. Very unlikely that other humans are even similarly sensitive to the well-being of
the creatures that I am. And I've made terrible mistakes, not on purpose. So yeah, I put some
in danger. And what I was thinking when I began this walk and talk was
there's some crows that know me. And when I'm near them, when I'm near their, their terrain,
their terrain, they group up and follow me and people might see this.
And I wonder what they would think if they noticed, I mean, I often wonder if people
think actually at all. I wonder what they would think if they saw, you know, five crows following
me up, up or down some street in the city. And I thought that they might think I'm a witch.
Humans naturally
surveil each other and they do so sometimes in obvious ways and sometimes surreptitiously.
I was just being surveyed, surveilled by a male in the garden.
So yeah, I wonder what the humans might think. But the thing that I find interesting is that
there's a very clear pecking order in the group of approximately five crows
that know me well. And I give them peanuts sometimes.
So they know that I am, I'm going to bring them something good to eat. And it's winter,
harder to get food colder, need more, need more fuel. It's very, it's relatively easy to discern
the genders in the corvids behaviorally. I have almost never seen, if ever,
a female who's relatively adventurous and aggressive.
Whereas the males, the males will come right down and grab a peanut. And they won't merely
grab a peanut. They'll check the other peanuts. They'll like do a weight test. They'll try to
figure out which peanut is best. So they might pick up with their beaks three or four peanuts.
Before the females even get near the food. And
so that creates a problem where it's difficult to get a peanut to the females at all.
The male crows have a craw so that they can
store one, probably one peanut, maybe two if we're talking raven.
And
so they can grab up, you know, most of the peanuts. And the females are so timid in this particular
group that although they may land near where the males are grabbing peanuts, and they may
make some tentative passes toward peanuts. What you will notice with crows and ravens
is they have a complex neurological behavior where
they'll make a pass at something they intend to grab and then bounce.
Like leap backward, leap away. They'll make a pass towards something and leap away from it.
And when they grab something, they'll leap away from it even though they've got it.
And this seems to be a what humans call an instinctual behavior. Most corvids share it,
I imagine. I haven't seen all the different kinds of corvids. I've rarely been able to
observe magpies. I think I've seen one in my life for a few minutes in real life.
Though I have sometimes observed them in video. By the way, there's a bunch of
convocation of crows and they seem stirred up.
Yes, I am speaking of your people. Please do not poop right on my head.
So interesting the foreground background feature of vision because in the foreground,
I see the crows in the background. There's these like visually challenging puffs of cloud
that what I mean by visually challenging is that they
if you look at one area of the cloud forms, the others seem
the others
could almost be in motion, the kind of motion that one sees in anything in the foveal vision
under the influence of psychedelics, this kind of internal efflorescing
outward transformational non-motion
that envision probably due to forms of neural feedback, still things appear to be moving,
the whole context may appear to be breathing and so forth. So the clouds are kind of
retellent with this interior spirit or energy, although I am not under the influence of any drugs at the moment,
unless you consider peanuts a drug I did eat a couple.
So it's hard to get peanuts to the crowgirls and I have a natural
tropism
for the underdog, for the little one, for the rejected one, for the outsider, so forth.
So I remember one beautiful afternoon, fairly safe this this I think,
where I walked to the ocean after not having seen it in many many years
and I brought some peanuts with me and it turned out that when I got there
I encountered an enclave of ravens.
And so the first thing I think I did, I'm not really sure actually which thing came first, let me be,
let me speak with integrity about this, I'm not sure. I may have given them peanuts first
or I may have sang to them first.
But both things were offerings of respect and
honoring them, honoring their people and their spirit, honoring our communal
relationship.
And I remember that there was one raven.
It's funny how emotionally effective a affect, effective this is for me, affect.
Because when I remember this I'm starting to choke up.
There was one raven,
there might have been a few ravens that I could visibly detect ticks around their eyes,
but there was one raven who, its eyes were surrounded with ticks.
And if you've ever watched young, young crows and ravens,
you will commonly see brother and sister pairs preening each other.
And maybe brother and brother pairs, maybe sister and sister pairs.
I don't know how common it is that a clutch produces one male and one female,
but you will see them preening each other. They will come very close together on a telephone wire
or something and they will preen each other or one of them will preen the other and they will
request, you can see them request preening.
And I knew as I was looking at the raven with all of the ticks that it was not treated well
by the rest of the, they can be very mean in their in their social pods,
