Hi, my name is Darren Stevenson. Thank you for joining me. You're probably watching my YouTube channel.
I can be found as the Darren Stevenson in San Francisco on Facebook.
I also have a blog at wondercloud.wordpress.com
and I run the website organiel.org where you can find some of my developmental fossils and speculations.
Let me be talking about a relatively controversial topic today.
Of course, most of the topics I talk about are controversial.
I'm presenting ideas that are probably not limited to me, but I haven't seen too many similar ideas floating around.
I'm sure in anthropological literature there may be some similar ideas.
Most of what I'm talking about today is my own observations and senses of culture and the questions that I'll be examining.
The first question that I'm going to examine today has to do with the nature of the family in the Western world.
I'm pretty sure that there's been some work that shows that it's very difficult to raise children in environments as bizarre and conflicted as the ones that we've set up.
Essentially, American culture is a toxic nightmare.
Basically, no one's mind can survive constant exposure to the culture we've set up here.
It's more poison than it is culture and the kinds of poison are just magnifying and breeding and sort of going crazy while we don't seem to really know what to do,
except to grand eyes and celebrate it more and more excitedly.
This is a deadly problem for our minds, but particularly for children because unlike us, they're living in a very different form of developmental time.
As you may know, smaller creatures often live at a faster rate of speed,
and children are actually physically developing at a metabolic rate that is much, much higher than adults,
which is why they're physically much more vulnerable to toxics in the environment, toxic chemistries, possibly transmission technologies,
but also relational toxicity because their developmental speed is so rapid compared to, for example, an adult.
We're all developing, so we're all vulnerable to anything that interferes with our development, but children are especially developmentally vulnerable.
It's absolutely crucial that they have environments that are very healthy for them when they're young so that they have a chance to get at least a good developmental start
that can give them a shot at surviving the incredibly pervasively and aggressively toxic culture that they're going to pretty much land in.
Now, some of the degree of effect kind of depends on your social class and your social situation.
It depends on lots and lots of variables, how your family is oriented, what the intelligence is like, and there's different kinds of intelligence,
so the relational intelligence of the family is probably one of the most important elements, relational and emotional intelligence.
Intellectual intelligence is also relatively important because it gives you access to new developmental streams that otherwise are prohibited.
And then, purposive intelligence, why are we doing things, like why do we go to work, why are we a family, things like this.
It's also extremely important for all kinds of families, but what I want to talk about today is something that most people are probably not clearly aware of
and it's causing us huge amounts of problems, it's destroying millions of lives, it's destroying mothers, fathers, children, everybody.
And in fact, the government has made a game out of this so that they actually get tons of money while we're being destroyed
and they torture people, particularly fathers, but also they're torturing mothers because they're giving them a completely false idea of how things are supposed to be.
And they're destroying children too because, again, they're providing a model of what the family is supposed to be that it's absolutely ridiculous,
it has nothing to do with how we're supposed to raise children.
So let me talk about briefly a few simple facts. For most of human history, and we're talking at least 50,000 years, there was no such thing as two people raising a child.
That idea is completely ridiculous. It has nothing to do with being human.
It has everything to do with models and ideas that are common to cultures that are sick, that just don't work.
Now, the fact that sometimes these cultures can manage to raise children and even have what we might call relatively healthy families, that is a fact.
But that's more an accident of other variables that make us, how should I put it, we're really flexible.
We can learn to adapt to environments and situations that would otherwise be very difficult for us.
So let's talk a little bit about the nature of human beings as animals.
We are pod animals. This is an animal like a dolphin or a gorilla.
We are evolved to live in small, tightly knit groups that have incredible local intimacy and essentially function as an extended family.
But rather than a family of individuals, it's more like a hand.
So it's more like one being that is existing in multiple bodies.
And what that means is really interesting because it means that, for example, if you have four, just think about a square with four corners and you connect all those four elements.
In all the ways you can, what you'll get is a square with a cross in the middle. You can imagine that easily.
So that's a four element family unit and it's a square with a cross in the middle.
What that means is that there are six different flat ways of connecting.
So four gives you six ways of connecting, a square with a cross in the middle or an X.
Now here's the really interesting thing.
If you have a four unit family or pod and you take one of those units away, so you went from four to three,
the number of connections goes from six to three.
That's a radical difference.
It's half the previous number of connections because we lost one member.
And what this can mean is things like the loss of a family member or the loss of a relational element in a pod can have a catastrophic effect on the pod.
The reason is that we're not actually individuals.
Pod animals don't really exist that way.
It's kind of a myth that we're all separate people.
What's more true is that we live in and through each other so that people with whom we are extremely intimate and close,
we actually sort of live through each other and we become ways of living for each other.
And this isn't too hard to understand because if you have someone you love, for example,
let's just say that you're in love with a romantic partner,
you often sort of think of yourself and see yourself empathetically through what you imagine to be their feelings or their desires or their concerns.
And this is the nature of pod animals.
So what happens is that our relational abilities and our relational intelligence and our relational health grows dramatically
when we're in very closely tightly knit pods, which of course you watch children forming these all day long.
They love to do this.
They want to do nothing else.
They just want to play together when they call it play.
We call it play.
Actually what's going on is something really shocking.
It's a form of accelerated mutual intelligence development.
And we experience something similar when we use the phrase falling in love.
Actually what that means is we're going to go through rapid accelerated phases of mutual development.
And this begins with a kind of almost intoxicating experience of sort of rediscovery of the self or rebirth of the self.
So the main point that I'm trying to make here is that for thousands of years we functioned in small, very tightly knit groups.
We are evolutionarily adapted for this.
And what we've done in Western culture is destroy all that.
And what we've produced is I guess what we call a nuclear family, but I'm not particularly familiar with that term.
So I'm not going to use it like an expert.
I'm using it because I think that's the right term.
And in this case what we have are two adults and then whatever children happen to be associated with them.
And those two adults share the responsibilities of both providing for the resource needs of the family and the shelter needs
and hopefully some of the developmental needs.
And then they also raise the children.
And this just doesn't work at all.
I want to talk about some specific ways it doesn't work.
So the first thing is that in most, in cultures that have pods and particularly in certain indigenous cultures,
it's very obvious that what happens is particularly for example in Africa, in some places in Africa,
is that you have a village and the village is a tightly knit group.
It's a constellation of pods actually and they're all very, very tightly knit together.
They act pretty much as a single organism in many cases.
And so what happens is that a child has one mother possibly,
but they really will end up with 15 or 20 mothers and they wander around from household to household
and all of the mothers raise all of the children and the children raise each other
and they naturally form little play groups and learning groups and exploration groups.
They have adventures.
And so there's very little pressure on any single mother to raise just her children.
And different mothers get to take on different roles.
Those roles can change over time.
They're fluid developmentally.
The roles are very interesting and they're very engaging for each of the mothers.
They all share resources so that there's very little stress in terms of, you know,
you just having to be the mother of your children and provide just for your children
and then sort of compete with all the other groups for any resources including attention.
There's tons of attention to go around.
There's tons of developmental opportunities and sort of novelty,
which is crucially important for our development.
And then the fathers are often sort of not too interested in raising kids, right?
They tend to be doing other things.
They're out hunting or they're competing to get new resources
and sort of go to new terrains, establish new relationships that benefit their pod.
The fathers are not tending to be deeply involved in child rearing in general.
There are exceptions, right?
And of course it's kind of, it's a little bit open.
But traditionally the way it works is this.
Groups of mothers raise the children and the fathers are often absent.
And when they come back, of course they love their children,
but they're not particularly involved in child rearing.
Now here's what happens in our country, which is completely nonsensical and insane.
What happens is that each mother has to basically provide all of the resources for the child
unless the father is present or unless they have the support of a family.
That's impossible and ridiculous and will destroy the average mother's life
even though many women are so amazing that they're actually able to accomplish this task
in a culture as completely destroyed and toxic as ours is.
And then the other thing that happens that's really fascinating and stupid
is that we decide that because the man was involved in generating the pregnancy
that the man is now materially and sort of legally bound
in some way to support that one person raising his or his and other children.
And then what happens is the state and the federal government get involved
and start acting as overseers and will basically threaten and punish the father
even if he does what he's supposed to do, but definitely if he doesn't do what they think he's supposed to do.
And here's the problem.
Most men are actually not really meant to be fathers,
but in the sense that we demand of them and that apparently we think is their legal responsibility.
That's actually just a bunch of invented fictional bullshit.
It has nothing to do with human development.
It's a torture system that basically ruins everybody because the mothers don't form pods.
Our culture is so broken that it's almost impossible to do this in our current milieu.
And the children have very limited access to multiple mothering
and they're sort of expecting their father, their one father to be there
and to father them and to help them develop.
Now in some families there's just so much love between the parents
and there's so much incredible intimacy there that they can survive all of this
and stay together and they raise their children and they do a fairly decent job.
But what happens in a lot of families is all different kinds of psychosis
and most of these parents are actually not prepared to raise children at all.
They have no idea really what's involved in this process.
They don't have the resources psychologically, intellectually, relationally, purposefully, financially to do any of this.
And so what's going to happen when the child gets born is there's a big crisis
where there's not enough anything for anyone and then everybody gets punished.
The children get punished, the mothers get punished, the fathers are often destroyed.
Because first of all they're expected to fulfill a role that evolutionarily they're really just not prepared for.
Now again there are lots of amazing fathers, there are lots of amazing single fathers,
there are amazing single mothers, there are amazing family units where you have a mother and a father and they're raising children.
Yes, we're flexible enough and some of us can, some of us sort of, we were developmentally healthy enough
that when we came into the situation of being parents and childbirth
that we were able to adjust even to the ridiculous situation we have here.
But what happens to the vast majority of people and especially sort of the poorer you are,
the more this is likely to happen to you, is that your life is essentially destroyed
and what happens is you're converted to the myth of the legal responsibilities
which basically sets up the mother as the recipient of the work benefit of the father
whether or not they are involved in raising the child.
This means that the mother expects the father to provide all of the resources for this
and to somehow also care for himself and provide for himself in the world.
Additionally to care for and provide for anyone else who may be important in his life such as another lover or his family or perhaps other children.
And in general this turns into an absolute catastrophe where the father is so tortured by the situation
and it's completely probably unprepared for fatherhood as well, I'll get to that in a minute,
that essentially it just destroys his life, it often destroys his ability to make money
and to get the resources necessary to take care of the financial and substantive needs of the mother and the child or children.
And the mother sees the father whenever he is failing at this as being a bad person, remiss, evil, etc.
It really just sets up a torture system and this destroys everybody.
It ruins the children because the children are inculcated with this myth
that the missing father is somehow evil, bad, for not supporting them, for not being there, etc.
When in fact what's going on is a lot more sophisticated than this. Here's what's really going on.
We're being forced to inhabit roles that we are not prepared for
and that don't in any way match our evolutionarily developed resources and proclivities.
So essentially the way it works is this.
Women are basically physically and psychologically prepared to be mothers at very young ages.
Almost as soon as they can become pregnant they at least have the capacity to give birth.
Now they're probably not psychologically prepared to be a mother until they're older,
maybe they're in their 20s or even older.
And our culture is horrible at preparing mothers and fathers for these roles
because it's actually horrible at preparing us just to be people, never mind parents.
So what goes on is this. The mother is relatively more prepared for the role of being a parent.
The father on the other hand is in almost no cases prepared at all.
In general men are not really relatively, they don't have the resources to be a decent father
until they're old enough to have developed a sense of maturity
and the desire to really relate with and be with children.
Often this doesn't happen until men are 40 or 50 or older.
And so for the young part of a man's life, his sort of developmental path is to establish himself in the world,
to establish his intellectual, relational and purposive persona
and his vocational path, his work and his ability to make money, which is incredibly important in our culture.
And also whatever kinds of creative or sort of self-fulfilling aspects that are an important part of him growing into manhood.
And so now the women have the same sorts of needs and they have the same kinds of developmental needs.
They have the same kinds of relational needs and purposive needs.
And they are also very poorly prepared and our culture is absolutely ridiculously impoverished around these things.
So what often happens is you get very poorly prepared people trying to raise children.
And either they're together or they're apart, but in any case it just doesn't work, right?
