And so either the mother is being punished in some way by the male
because he's being forced into a role that he just isn't prepared for in any kind of reasonable way,
the role of like a live-in father, maybe a couple still together in this case.
But really the man in many cases is not at all prepared for fatherhood
and so he's being forced and expected to fulfill a role that how will he be prepared for it?
And in this phase of his life he's really meant to be doing other things that will allow him to become a provider.
And a provider is someone who's missing from the home a lot.
Now we exchange these roles in our modern times.
Sometimes the women are the provider and the men become sort of the fathers.
And again we're flexible enough that lots of us can do wonderful jobs of this.
But for vast segments of our culture we've got a huge problem which is the women
and we basically make babies and we either do that because we're intending to be together and married
or in a live-in relationship or we do it accidentally.
Nature loves to make babies.
If you basically put a couple people together, give nature a shot at it, there's a good chance it's going to happen.
So we end up with a lot of broken families where the father is being tortured into a role
and demanded into a role legally, remanded into a role that really he can't fulfill.
And with the sort of cruel oversight of the state and believe me I've been through it,
it's absolutely cruel, it completely destroyed my career which was a brilliant career
and I could have made millions of dollars for my family and my son's family.
Absolutely those people just tortured and hated me.
And even I as a person who really adores children was not prepared to be a father.
I didn't really know what to do with my son when he was a baby.
And I did spend time with him, I visited him a lot.
I was a pretty good father when I was with him, I was very loving and very playful
and we did a lot of exploring nature and singing and learning things.
But I was completely unprepared for the role of being a father.
I just wasn't mature enough yet.
And so what I want to say here is this.
Lots of us have grown up in really difficult family situations that are incomprehensible to us.
Where for example either our mother or our father was incredibly cruel to us.
Maybe even they beat us or they tried to kill us, literally.
I know many children whose parents actually tried to kill them.
They tortured their children and they fought horribly with each other.
They hated each other, they attacked and legally attacked each other.
And there was just basically, the family wasn't a family at all, it was a war zone.
Which of course, go back to the pod unit model, this is the exact opposite
and it's catastrophically wrong for our kind of animal.
So the thing that I want to really get across here is this.
First of all, our model is wrong.
I'm not sure exactly what we can do about that, but we need to at least begin by recognizing it.
Secondly, if you've come from a really difficult family situation
where one or more of your parents was abusive or incredibly violent or vicious or drunk
or an addict or they had other kinds of problems,
try and understand that our culture is so broken
that the way that we ordinarily attempt to assemble families is just wrong.
And the fact that it succeeds sometimes is wonderful, we should all celebrate that
and those people are amazing people for being able to do that.
Whether they're single parents or whether they're together and have support.
But generally speaking, what happened to a lot of us
is that our parents weren't prepared to be mothers or fathers.
Our culture is completely broken.
It put them in roles there's no way they could fulfill
and it turned our families into a nightmare so that we had like enemies as our parents
or our parents were each other's enemies.
We were competing with our brothers and sisters perhaps for such modest amounts of attention
that it wasn't enough attention for one child, never mind two or three.
And in many cases, the father becomes an absolute monster or an alcoholic
or some kind of person who's acting out in a variety of ways
because he's being forced into a role that he doesn't even understand that he's not prepared for
and feels terrible guilt and confusion and inner fear and vulnerability about
and can't even say the things that I'm saying.
I mean it took me 20 years to be able to say just the things that I'm...
and learn and see the things that I'm talking about here.
So it's very, very important that we realize that in many family situations
the parents are completely unprepared, they're vastly overwhelmed, they're in roles
they just simply can't fulfill and the result is catastrophe, right?
It's probably not...
The main reason I want to say this is that if you were the victim of a situation like this
or one or more of your parents was just a terrible parent
or actually really hurt you or hurt each other or hurt other people in your family
you may be able to find a great deal of forgiveness and relief
in the understanding that their situation, they were cast in a role
that was impossible for them to fulfill.
They probably didn't even understand why it was impossible
because they've never seen even one example of what it's like to be a human animal
which is to live in a small, intimately tightly knit group
that cares for all of its members and has a kind of lifestyle
unlike anything we've ever even known.
We never even glimpsed this.
Maybe we see things we don't even understand in documentaries about Indigenous people.
So if you're in a situation like this and you're a child or a teenager
if you suffered horribly when you were a young person
because your parents were treating you in ways that seemed like monstrous and awful
it's probably because they were cast in roles that they just had no possible way to fulfill.
They were probably terribly confused and agonized and had no idea what to do
and when this happens we just act out in general.
Humans, when we're put in these kinds of stressful situations
we don't know what to do.
There's no one to help us figure out what to do.
There's no real extended culture of any kind.
Therapists and doctors and things don't work
because they're just professionals that are going to try to get you to fit into a culture
that's so broken that if you fit into it you're going to be sick.
So the thing that I want you to understand that's really important is this.
Many of us had extremely difficult childhoods
and our parents were suffering
and we had no idea why they were suffering or what they were suffering from
they were suffering from impossible roles that they couldn't fulfill.
It's wrong to torture men into being...
You cannot litigate a man into being a father.
That's absolutely wrong.
And for the mother to expect that to happen is absolutely wrong.
To teach the child that the father is supposed to be present in raising them
just because they happen to be their biological father is completely ridiculous.
It's just wrong.
It's not true about the kind of animal that we are
and you can make up any kind of story you want that won't change a thing.
So if like me and like many other people I know
you've suffered in this way either as a parent or as a child or as both
it can be a great relief to understand
that we were placed in the situations we had no possible way to cope with.
We couldn't even tell what I'm saying here.
We didn't even know what I'm saying here to be able to try to work it out.
And if you were so lucky that you had a wonderful family
and even one good parent or two
then that's definitely absolutely worth celebrating
and by all means we should try to empower each other
to fulfill those roles where possible
but to absolutely demand them
or tell rotten terrifying stories about them
torture each other, litigate and get the courts involved.
That's a sick, devastatingly stupid idea.
We need to just stop doing that
and we need to also begin talking about these
really important features of our humanity
that are completely overlooked in our culture
but are absolutely necessary to our developmental health
to our purpose of intelligence
our ecological intelligence
our relational intelligence and our emotional intelligence
as well as our learning intelligence, our intellectual intelligence.
So if you've suffered in this way
I hope that you may find some relief
in understanding that your parents and the situation they were in
they didn't have a chance.
If your father was a monster
if your mother was a monster
if they were fighting each other or torturing each other
or you or the other children were fighting and stuff
this is really more because we're in situations
that are completely unnatural
and hopefully you'll be able to forgive
and realize that these people were probably doing the very best
they could manage in a situation they were abjectly unprepared for
and just knowing that can be a huge relief
for all of us who suffered in this way
in any of these roles
and being able to talk about it and realize
that we really need a tribe
we really need a pod group
to raise children in ways that are healthy and matter
and the more that we can talk about
and learn how to assemble this in the really bizarre
alienating and a strange technological
we're sort of
toxically technological cultures that we presently have
the better chance that we'll have to both heal the wounds of our past
and give our children and our parents
the resources that they need to succeed and grow
and discover their astonishing powers of humanity
and learning and joy
when we are able to make the kinds of tightly knit pod-like groups
that are our nature.
Thank you for joining me
if you have any questions or anything to add
I would love to hear from you
please feel free to send me a friend request on Facebook
or follow me here on YouTube
and I look forward to learning much more together
and to trying to form cultures
that we can be intelligent and beautiful
amazing living beings in nature together today.
Thanks again. Bye bye for now.
