Hi everybody.
There's so many topics on my mind.
Of course, mind isn't exactly a table.
It's just something to put things on.
Even though the metaphor resembles that.
I think about these metaphors.
In English, the container metaphor.
Love is in my heart.
It's really common, but it's not common in other languages.
Or rather, there are languages in which it's not common.
A relationship is a vehicle.
We went a long way together, but then things came to a halt.
There's all these metaphors.
And there's a great book.
No, it's not the only one.
Blake Hoffman Johnson's book, Metaphors We Live By.
And I was discussing with my friend,
Ryan First Diver, his astonishing insight
that our modern cultures, we can think of them as western,
but we're not the only ones.
They put rectangles everywhere.
I'm holding one in my hand right now.
And you could pause for a moment
and look around a room in your home
and you'll see how everything is squares and rectangles.
Lately, I've been talking about frames.
Priming, right?
How exposure to something primes us
to already begin collapsing clouds to frames.
And how compelling that can be once it gets started
in our minds, or our cultures, and our cultures.
And you know, the blackboard in front of the classroom
is a great big rectangle, our screens are rectangles,
our beds, our tables, our chairs, our mirrors,
with some exceptions, those edge cases,
our books, our smartphones, our computers,
all these rectangles.
We're swarming rectangles, right?
And this is the symptom of something
we should be able to unpack together
and surface some of the history of.
A little dog transferred knowledge to me
a long time ago when it was sitting on his companion's lap
looking out the window.
And the little dog was absolutely glued to the window,
like almost frozen.
And I wondered what was out there that could be that interesting
because I live on the second story of my building.
It might be a metaphor there in terms of intelligence
or awareness or something too.
But in any case, it hit me in a flash
and it really was like a spiritual moment, right?
It wasn't where I figure it out, which is all very framey.
No, it was like something came into me, I felt it,
and long before I could even say anything,
I understood that outside the window leaves
were blowing in the breeze, the leaves of a gum tree.
And that's what the dog was glued to
and then suddenly I understood that nothing inside my box is moving.
It's as if we've evicted time and relationship from the box,
although it intrudes mechanically in all kinds of ways thereafter.
And of course, things move on screens, right?
We get representations in rectangles and frames.
And the frame adds all kinds of seeming conveniences,
boundaries, limitations, control, isolation, right?
The frame makes its content stand out from the background for focus, right?
It intuitively draws our focus, these frames.
And within those frames, particularly our screens,
the frames can represent a portal into other experiences and minds and situations,
but that conceivable asset is easily compromised
so that rather than liberating or educating us,
the content coming through the frames is deceiving us
or manipulating us or priming us to be manipulated.
And in our minds, when we have thoughts, right,
the path of our mind behavior while we're awake
is a lot like traveling through a terrain of possible frames
when there are possible collapses,
and then selecting as we travel forward in metaphor
which frames we ignore, which ones we collapse,
which ones we collapse into and identify with, moment to moment.
Even as I am making this video,
I am doing something analogous to what I describe, right?
I'm traversing a landscape of possibility and inspiration,
and as possible frames arise,
I'm quickly and intuitively evaluating them, throwing some away, enhancing others.
But our ordinary mind activity is not very well guided,
so it's very prone to being hijacked by the frame that acquires the most concern
or that elicits the most outrage
or that has deep ambiguity which is frightening
because we don't know what it is,
and so we can't tell it's not dangerous.
We can't tell it's not an opportunity either.
So most of us while we're awake,
we're one way of understanding how we select our mind path
is by using this toy.
And when we become conscious that we're engaged in something similar to that,
new options appear,
and we are more likely to be able to determine
if we are being manipulated, if it's likely,
if this is nourishing experience,
if it's habitual,
if it plays into some pattern that we would like to transform in our lives
or our hearts or our thought, our behavior.
We can see the frames arising from a position above them,
and that returns liberty to us
when we're able to just be able to envision something like what I'm talking about.
See, this is not very framey.
Rather, the way that it's framey is both structured and ambiguous at the same time.
And until things collapse down to a concrete declaration,
there's ambiguity in there, in our thought.
But most of us have learned over time where we've become habituated
to an extremely inelegant relationship with language and frameworks,
awareness, consciousness, hummingbirds.
So rather than navigating that process freely
with our intuition and our creativity and playfully with our intelligence,
we mostly get stuck into habits
where certain kinds of frames are very attractive to us
and we tend to collapse them very quickly into concepts or perspectives
or beliefs or ideas that we then identify with,
meaning that we lose the distinction between the idea and who we are
or the concept in who we are, the belief in who we are.
And all kinds of trouble comes from that.
How to tie a knot with one hand?
Well, maybe not. Maybe I'll have to use two.
So an example of an ideological frame is just to give one that's timely.
COVID is a hoax.
And when we do this frame game thing,
we're actually trying to offload actual work, right?
Doing the work to learn about something from a broad, open-minded perspective of integrity.
And we're also going to offload responsibility, right?
And we're going to skip over time in relationships, right?
If COVID's a hoax, I can just skip that.
I don't have to wear a mask or be concerned.
Everybody's just having a psychotic episode. There's no virus.
That's a frame collapse.
And then the people who treat that idea as if it's themselves
so that anyone who questions that idea is questioning them,
that's the point of identification.
Now they've collapsed not merely their mind into a frame.
They've mixed their identity in with the collapsed frame.
And framing itself is probably something we can't get away from,
but we can develop intelligence about it together.
And that intelligence is profoundly transformative in very short order
for anyone with any interest in transformation and growing and learning.
Because otherwise we're inclined to just kind of like monkeys go like frame to frame to frame.
And that's not really like having a mind.
That's like having a frame selection algorithm.
It's not mindful behavior, as I'm sure you can see.
And also the frames that we get off the shelf, you know, like we can build our own frames.
We can envision our own frames.
But the ones we get off the shelf are often infected,
meaning they were originally produced for the purpose of being compelling
so that lots of people would grab onto them and maybe even collapse into them, you see.
And that's neither really human nor intelligent.
That's mechanistic when we're involved in that.
And of course, you know, religions and political parties, these are all frame corporations.
Hollywood, these are all frame making endeavors.
And they're trying many of them to actually sell frames to people who will either become consumers
or fuel for the maintenance and elaboration of the frame, its tactics,
its domination over the transports between humans,
its domination locally and individual human minds and communally in groups.
So us moderns live in sort of frame factories.
But this is both unfortunate and perhaps reasonably cautious.
The current situation has exacerbated something that's been going on now for a long time,
which is that as human beings have become more electronically connected,
they become less relationally connected.
And the frame of our house is a barrier, right?
And its primary purpose is to keep out a variety of things, nature, right?
Ambiguity, uncontrollable things, unknown things.
And enemies or predators or opportunists, right?
And our houses have windows which are portals to the outside of the buffer zone, right?
And over time, first television, then computers, then smartphones became electronic portals
to the other side of the membrane, that the rectangle, you know,
by the way, just in the middle of a garden, right?
Right smack dab in the heart of the SF botanical garden is a giant green rectangle.
And the sort of phonemics of that word, the wrecked angle or a wrecked tangle is hilarious.
A tangle of wreckage, you know, like a frame collapse, a wrecked angle.
But actually it comes from wrecked, meaning rectitude, right hand, correct, right side of the body,
left hemisphere of the mind, the frame guy, frame girl.
Yeah, it comes from the idea of making correct.
But the rectangle excludes, in every case, nearly all of all it is, right?
It's a seeming zone of safety.
But I think the thing that I was concerned about is just that more and more over the past 20 years or 30 years
as work invaded the home, as electronic communication became extremely popular, if not universal.
As we spent more time on the computer and on social media, those of us who did,
some people opted out of that quite wisely.
And some people had lives too busy to, you know, be engaged in social media in any significant way.
But as this has gone on, our homes have become like these little sat,
they've delivered the bad parts of the space fantasies of 1970s, right?
Supposedly we were going to go to space, we were going to colonize the planets,
we would all have spaceships, we'd be like the Jetsons.
I think in our fervor to admire the visions of future technology, we failed to notice things.
In 2001, a space odyssey, there is nothing alive in the spaceship.
It's all dead time.
It's all predictable, frozen off from the outside.
The only thing they have in there other than the men is the robot
who has been secretly tasked with a function that will destroy its capacity
to make survivable decisions.
And that function was to lie.
I think we forgot to notice that the inside of a spaceship is dead.
