There's nothing moving in there.
It's a bunch of dials and machines that grant us the illusion of power, freedom, dominance.
But they are actually representations of the power, freedom, and dominance,
the liberty, the intelligence, the potential for relation that was sacrificed
to produce the dials and gauges and screens.
There was a cost.
We didn't notice.
We were fascinated with the technology, but shockingly in 2020, which was the far future in my childhood.
And maybe thankfully, we don't have a lot of spaceships.
We've got a lot of bombs and missiles and battleships and aircraft carriers and submarines and rockets.
But we don't travel in space really.
What happened instead was they turned our homes into the spaceships.
Life was increasingly subtracted from our common experience.
And new dimensions of dead time sprung up as representations and rectangles in our homes.
So that now being totally separated from each other, most of the time due to the pandemic,
we're like space travelers in our own homes.
Our homes have become the spaceship.
Outer space is just outside, right?
Because outside is now no longer reliably safe.
So nature and outside is outer space.
And as the frames of our relationships collapsed around us into more and more representational artifacts, right?
Or just representations of relation.
We were skipping over the actual experiences and relationships and education that we get when we're in relation, right, together.
Or even when we're in actual relationship with our problems rather than being in a relationship with a representation of our problems.
So there's been this sort of seething swarm of frame collapse all around us.
Our jobs invaded our homes.
Electronic media invaded our every moment of life and made us instantly accessible.
Even in our boxes.
But over time these boxes have become isolation units.
And this has never been more true than it is now.
And I'm concerned about how that process will continue to develop, particularly if we are not consciously aware of it.
Again, if we become consciously aware of it, we at least have the opportunity to make some choices.
And not just as individuals but together.
The degree of isolation many of us are feeling now is an entirely new thing.
I have never experienced the sense or the awareness that to go to the grocery store might get me killed.
Or might kill other people if I am sick and don't know it.
The ambiguity is incredibly difficult to navigate.
But it's real to me. It's real in my awareness.
So I pay attention.
And I don't have a concrete position.
I have a best intelligence position coupled with various kinds of pragmatism.
I will need certain things from the store.
And the lifestyle of consumers unfortunately is a perfect storm for anything, any institution or group that could benefit from our isolation.
And perhaps the fragmentations that are more natural when we stop having relationships with the living world, with each other, with our potential as human beings.
But we can't survive on rectangles.
And our minds degrade catastrophically as we become more vulnerable to being fed frames we collapse thought, decision making and identity into.
So we kind of live in outer space already.
It's just that instead of taking our homes to outer space, they brought outer space to our homes.
They just changed the house into the spaceship.
They, I mean, circumstances changed.
But our technologies are really a primary causal player in this they that I was generally referring to.
And it doesn't feel good to be in a box.
Especially now when I realize that life is truly precious and ambiguous.
Not that it wasn't always, but it's much more so today.
There's no guarantee of it tomorrow.
And there never was, but again, there was a degree, right?
There was a degree of relatively trustworthy structure.
And that's why we like frames, right?
Saves us work.
But some of that work is absolutely necessary to being human or having anything resembling life or adventure or development or anything like this.
So we shouldn't be too quick to retreat into our little spaceships.
As time goes on and these forces continue to profoundly influence us.
And we certainly shouldn't be unaware of our vulnerability to concepts and language and ideas and frameworks.
And our capacity to collapse, you know, many perspectives that we can hold at once.
Down to two or three, down to one, down to a frame, down to a collapsed frame, a concrete, you know, token or idea.
And then to collapse our identity into that, right?
We can undo this process.
We can go backwards here.
We can pull our identity out of the token.
Back to the frame we collapsed from all the others.
Back to the superposition of frames.
Back to the position of consciousness above frameworks.
And I'm trying to learn how to do these things because even though I can say them and understand them.
I'm a regular human.
And I have these same experiences that many, if not most of us have.
It's ironic the thing about our homes becoming like submarines or spaceships.
But our lives too, right? We don't.
We're not getting enough living signal.
We're getting a lot of electronic noise.
There was some living signal.
By the way, this whole right side thing, the rectitude and rectifying and rectangles.
Well, there's another word that goes along with that in its erection.
And one of the things the humans do when they make shit like this is they're erecting a frame.
And it's like they want a permanent erection.
And all the little plants have their little rectangles.
I have a feather from that bird.
But yeah, there's this kind of like, what if we could just make erections forever?
Just permanently erect all the time, you know?
Like some aspect of the mind of humanity got like a permanent hard on and started tearing everything apart and making it into little boxes and shit.
And that's me cribbing from my conversation with my friend the other day.
Because we were both laughing about that.
Because we were trying to understand how we got from the triangle to the rectangle.
And I was like, well, there's bilateral symmetry, but you get two points up in the symmetry instead of just one, right?
That's more erection.
He started laughing and I started laughing.
But the rectangle is a more, what's the right word?
There's a word in mathematics for it that I don't know.
It's more complex bilateral symmetry because there are two points.
You know, there are four points of symmetry rather than essentially three.
So I hope you'll consider some of the things I've been reflecting on today.
And look around at the rectangles and wonder and ask questions and we can learn together because it's very mysterious.
Why?
And people can make pragmatic arguments, it's still mysterious.
Why we would want to surround ourselves with boxes and rectangles and things?
When the living sort of topology of life is nothing like that.
That's got to be the least common form in nature and maybe it's a sign of our species attempt to be separate from nature,
to dominate it from a position that we think of as above it, to control it, to delimit it, to own the presentation of it.
When you go to a state park and you see this sign, it tells you who owns it and what it's for.
So there's all this collapse of degrees of liberty and in relation into degrees of manipulative value.
And it gives us a lot of chance to time skip and to skip relationships and to skip responsibility and to skip all kinds of things.
So maybe it's a utilitarian origin primarily, but there's something spooky here.
And it's even spookier that nearly none of us will walk into a room and be like viscerally aware that we're totally buried in and surrounded by rectangles and squares.
How many rectangles do you see here?
Now if you're really paying attention, you'll say one.
I'm sure we will continue these journeys together.
And I'm very grateful to those of you who take the time to listen to my videos and walk with me and think with me and if you have questions or input, please don't hesitate.
Post your ideas or questions or insights in the comments and we can continue to learn together.
Thank you for joining me.
Bye bye for now.
