Hello everyone. Thank you for joining me. I'm, as usual, out walking in the botanical
gardens this afternoon saying hello to many plants and animals that I love and some of
whom I have a close relationship with. And one of the things that's interesting about
that is that the news gets around in a way us moderns might find surprising. So that,
for example, if I am close with an animal, if I have a relationship with an animal or a plant or a
tree, it's like I'm participating in a non-ordinary network that is certainly invisible to conceptual
thought. And perhaps that's part of what I mean when I use this word non-ordinary. I don't
actually mean, or the phrase, conjunction, I don't actually mean, well, I guess I have
different meanings in different contexts, which is how I try to use words and how I try to think
about both the flexibility and dangers of language. But I don't really mean supernatural or
metaphysical, although nor do I not mean those things. It's just that that's not what I'm emphasizing.
When I'm using the word now or the phrase now, what I mean is unlike our common ideas. And that is also
kind of a strange thing because there are many, many human beings who are aware of the intimacies,
the faculties, the relationships, the gifts, well within the reach of our common humanity. And many
people practice these intimacies in their own sometimes unique and sometimes common ways. But
when I know an animal or a plant in a living place, the funny thing about it is that word gets
around. And that language might be a bit conflicted because it's not words that get around. But
something like the news travels. Other creatures become aware that I respect and adore the living
beings, and that I have a practice of relating with love and attentiveness and presence with them.
And so, for example, if I make a friend of relatively easy friends to make usually, but if I make a
friend of a blue jay, this will change my relationship with all the local birds. And it will also
change my relationship with the trees and the plants and the animals. And if I make a friend of a
raccoon, or an opossum, or a skunk, something very similar happens. The news travels. And I don't
think it travels by talking. And without being able to describe or explain the living network in
which this news travels, I'm deeply aware of it, respectful and reverent about it. And unlikely
to dismiss it with low-hanging clinical explanations of things like, well, of course, if you feed an
animal, other animals see this, right? But the relationships are actually quite complex because,
for example, when I first began to relate with some jays that I love, who know me well now,
I used to put some food in a specific spot in the garden. And because I was so focused on the
jays, I wasn't paying attention to the fact that the hummingbirds nearby were quite upset about
this. Because, well, in a complex way, the simple explanatory framework is that the hummingbirds
have a very intimate relationship with the blue jays. And it's not merely enmity, but they're
aware that the blue jays pose a threat to their young. Because the blue jays will eat hummingbird
eggs. And so will crows, magpies, other corvids, perhaps some hawks, though unlikely. Turns out
that the hummingbirds that nest near hawk nests have a fledgerate of about something around 80%
according to literature. And those that don't have a fledging rate, successful fledgerate of
something around 15 or 20%. And this is, of course, because the corvids, well, again, what's
actually going on is really, really complex and not like our explanatory paradigms. And I think
it's important to highlight this so that we don't forget. Because once we have an explanation or
model, it's really easy to believe it and to think that it's sufficient or that I know what's
going on. I've learned to resist that urge over time. And it requires practice for most of us.
It appears that the corvids don't want to approach the nest sites of hawks, which can prey on them
directly, not merely on their young. So there's a very complex web. And in the beginning,
while I wasn't paying attention to the hummingbirds, and they would be very vocal. But it took me a
while before I got the message, you know, they're very vocally telling me, hey, our nest is near
here. It's not, we're not happy. And it's a problem for us. If you keep bringing the blue jays
toward our nest. So eventually I learned to pay attention to that. And then the hummingbirds
relaxed. But for a while, they weren't too happy about me. So the news travels in different ways.
And there's so many different features of this situation on my mind that I'm going to have to
take a few moments to organize my my path. One of the simpler things I can say is that the internet,
as we understand it with humans, which I think we rather poorly understand it actually, rather
than us having an internet, and much like many of our other technological innovations,
our tools seem to possess us. This is a very strange situation. You can imagine how confused
you'd be for more reasons than one, if you saw a car riding a human down the street. But this is
something like this. This trope resembles our situation. We think we're riding our technologies,
but they are riding us. And they're extremely expensive in ways we have no systems of accounting
for. But the internet is a derivative of something accessible to us in relationships with living
beings, places and each other. Also with origin and knowledge, and perhaps the most peculiar
technology of all, language. The technology with which we structure memory and preserve it over
time, preserve those structures over time, exchange them, place them in competition, not only with
each other, but with ourselves, and perhaps even with life on earth. I was just listening again to
my dear friend, Ryan First Diver, to his his phenological lecture on the current moon cycle,
and Ryan is one of the unusual people in my world who's deeply aware of much of what I speak of and
am concerned about. And has been a wonderful ally and teacher and companion in my own path of
learning, which for me sometimes seems to go far too far more slowly than I would prefer.
And to proceed by millimeters rather than inches or feet or miles, though there are
occasional sudden leaps. And Ryan, along with being just a brilliant human being, he's an
embodiment of lineage knowledge that has been preserved and transferred within Blackfoot communities,
perhaps for thousands of years. What an incredibly rare gift it is to have a friend like this,
particularly in our modern time, when the originally indigenous peoples and their languages
are disappearing and undergoing wave after wave of what we might refer to as colonization. I guess
when we use this word, we often think of the peculiar disjunction between nomadic peoples
who live on the land. And of course, not all of the peoples who live on the land are nomadic,
because the necessity of moving about depends very deeply on the transformations of living
places over lunar and solar cycles, and perhaps cycles we have no idea or concept for. And so
there are settled indigenous peoples, and there are still some nomadic indigenous peoples. But
when we use this word colonization, I think we think of the stories surrounding the histories
and tragedies surrounding the invasion of territories by city builders, and largely Western
colonial powers. But it's also useful to think about it in the same way we might think about the
colonization, the idea of colonization that we might get from infection with certain forms of
bacteria or viruses that colonize us and live in and as and with our bodies, sometimes neutrally,
sometimes beneficially, and sometimes catastrophically. One of the things I like about Ryan
is that he's surprisingly humble about the his role as someone who is embodying and preserving
and nurturing and sharing from these ancient traditions. You can find his wide range of lectures
on YouTube if you search for Ryan first diver, two words, and particularly if you add to that
phenology, that's P-H-E-N-O-L-O-G-Y, then you can find his phenology lectures which are
in my perspective one of the most valuable and astonishing things available on the internet.
And this is in my mind today, not merely because I was listening to his lectures,
but because of an experience I had last night that brings full circle something precious to me.
Before I'd been introduced to the idea of phenology and I want to be clear there's something much
deeper here than any kind of study can reveal, vastly more deep and more accessible and differently
accessible. Accessible to our interiority, to our essence, to our souls, to our hearts,
to the origins within time and embodiment of our minds. There's something much much deeper than
any kind of study will reveal and it's this asset that is precious to me. Though I value also the
the study and intellectual knowledge.
So
before I knew that phenology existed, before I knew that there were people who studied living time
over cycles of the sun and moon, but since the moon has a faster pulse,
it's more the moon cycles have a faster pulse, they're more accessible to us.
In the west we have this idea of seasons and we ordinarily count them as four,
winter, spring, summer, fall and we see this as a circle or cycle.
But each year there are 12 or perhaps 13 depending on
the specific circumstances in the living places. There are 12 or 13 moons
and although there were solar societies, probably throughout history,
societies that marked time by the sun, most of the ancient and indigenous societies that I've
become aware of pay very close attention to the moon.
So that it becomes a demarcation, each moon cycle from the new moon to the new moon
or from the first crescent to the last crescent or the next first crescent.
The time when the moon is gone is a very important
mysterious situation and of course there are wonderful ancient stories,
origin stories and teaching stories and magical stories, mythos stories around
the origin of humans and their relationships with the sun and the moon and the morning star
and what is sometimes referred to as the false morning star
and also with the dipper stars and the Pleiades stars.
But these are rarely presented as objects, in fact I've never heard it done.
They're presented as beings of a non-ordinary whose scope of existence is very different from
those of us who are merely embodied. So long ago when I first came here to San Francisco
I looked around for signs of life and I'm particularly fascinated by specific forms
though I love all the forms pretty much without exception.
I'm not super happy about things like you know fleas or mosquitoes or something but I still love them.
So when I first came here I was new to this living place and I really saw it as a city
and not a living place and I saw the park and the garden as human invented representations
of living places. That was a bit naive over time I came to understand that anywhere there's life
is a living place even if there's a difference in the accessible depth and diversity of a wilderness
and the accessible depth and diversity of a backyard or even the little square of cement
that has been cut away in front of a house in order for some plants to be growing there.
And one night well because when I came here I was very curious I started to look around for
the forms of life I remember from my childhood and I have to tell you it's important to understand
that in the 60s and 70s there were vastly more forms of life all around every place I lived
even in the cities I lived they were mostly small cities.
Unfortunately over a very short period of time most of that life disappeared.
All kinds of insect species disappeared bird species disappeared amphibians are among the first
to go when there's an environmental problem because they're very delicate.
And so the species of frogs and toads and salamanders and newts lizards and snakes that I
had occasionally or sometimes regularly encountered in my childhood these became very rare as I got
older and this was due primarily to environmental toxicification of a wide range of kinds but one
of the most devastating of all was the widespread use of DDT as an insecticide in the 60s and 70s
if I remember correctly certainly in the 70s when Rachel Carson of course wrote her brilliant
book Silent Spring about this problem and I consider that to have been an act of heroism.
But as I got older the creatures I adored largely disappeared.
All kinds of different spiders and insects beetles and moths butterflies dragonflies
they went away and they didn't come back.
And when I came here I thought the gardens here and the park would be a perfect place
to find some amphibians and perhaps some reptiles.
But I was mistaken.
I've turned over hundreds of logs and pieces of wood in the gardens and in the in the park
and I've never yet seen one frog or amphibian not one salamander not one newt.
In fact peculiarly Golden Gate Park is built on what used to be sand dunes
and these days when one turns the log over although
it may be different today than it was back then I'll try it.
Let's have a peek.
Very little.
Some spiders but one of the surprising things is that under the loam in the gardens
even though we're three or four miles from the ocean there are thousands of sand fleas
and these are the detritivores that are native to this area.
And I think it's hard to outcompete them.
They're staggeringly numerous
and you find them wherever you lift up some of the loam.
This is uncommon.
Ordinarily these creatures aren't found more than a mile or two from the ocean.
But perhaps some 25 years ago I was out walking in the evening
and as I recall it was a full moon.
Now of course in western culture we think of this as one specific moment
in the time of one day in the cycle.
But indigenous cultures weren't so concerned about exactitude in numerism.
At least when thinking about the moon cycle so that for the three days around the new moon
it may be understood to be the new moon and the full moon might be on a specific day
but also for a few days around it it's still relatively full.
So one night I was out walking and I'd looked everywhere I could think of
and found no evidence of amphibians here.
There used to be a little exception I'm not sure if it will survive.
Here in the gardens there is one specific pond where there were unusual frogs.
But I think during the pandemic that man-made pond wasn't continuously filled
and one of the important reproductive cycles may have been overcome by the lack of water
so that the eggs did not survive.
We will find out this spring.
And of course the indigenous peoples who follow the moon
they have something more like 12 or 13 seasons and they don't tend to think of spring and fall
though there may be exceptions.
Sorry 12 or 13 seasons.
The moon seasons.
And phenology is in part the study of the transformations
that are available to our perception both somewhat objectively in the sense of
ah these birds have just returned from far away or these animals are now making nests
or these insects or animals or plants are mating now.
So there are some easily observed features of each moon cycle that we can remark upon.
But there's something much much deeper that's very difficult to speak of
in common western conceptual thought.
There's a vast layered web of intimate relationships, transfers of gifts, mutual aid,
hunting, predation, reproduction, mating.
And these relationships and their invisibles are old in a way our common language
is very ill-equipped to frame to our thought.
But they are accessible to our participation should we choose to engage that way.
And they are perceptible to aspects of our minds and our bodies and perhaps our essence,
our spirit in a way that has more in common with dreaming than it does with thought.
And this may be in part why many indigenous peoples have profoundly developed traditions
not merely around dreaming as we think of it, the thing that happens at night when we're asleep.
But something deeper, more rich, more diverse, more profound
that partakes of a similar character in awareness and consciousness.
And so we might benefit from understanding that the dreaming we have at night
