they could presume that those two events were quote-unquote mere coincidence.
And we have these ideas in English and in Western cultures
around correspondences and synchronicities, but I'm very mistrustful of them.
I'm mistrustful of the ideas.
It doesn't mean I pay them no attention. I take them with a lot of salt, so to speak.
Yet we have these derivations and frameworks and models and ideas
because there is something in our experience
from which we derive them, and that's something I am very sensitive to,
and there was more than a hint of it here last night with the amphibians.
The way my friend Ryan presents phenology is
shaped in such a way as to be accessible to moderns, and so
it will sound a bit like an academic pursuit.
If that's the kind of ear we're listening with, but if we listen more closely,
we will see that Ryan hints here and there and sometimes directly introduces
non-ordinary aspects of traditional Blackfoot knowledge ways.
And of course, even when he is pronouncing the Blackfoot names of plants and animals,
we're getting a gift there of experience with a language vastly older than English.
And somehow in the sounds of that language,
there's something exquisite, rare in our experience, deeply profound,
and related to the living layers of intimacy in relation
that have survived
the terrible repercussions of colonization and genocide and omniside.
So for me, this is deeply medicinal,
and although the surface may look academic to some, and involves
modern academic ideas and perhaps biology here and there, folds some of that in.
Ryan's really good at making a soup that's accessible to modern people,
while still carrying in its broth the living heartbeat
of these peoples, their ancient traditions, their intimacies and understandings
their agreements and treaties with living places, living beings,
and the origin of life, the meaningful purpose of
soil and light and water,
their marriage, their children, their histories.
And frankly, I'm deeply humbled by all these things.
Knowing of them does not make me feel smart or important,
and quite the opposite. I feel the living places and beings and intimacies and relationships,
these are true in a way that humans have never made a network like.
The news that emerges when we're engaged
in relating with the transformations over each moon cycle, should we so choose
to become involved in this way, is absolutely trustworthy, and it's of a kind never found
in language, never found in concepts. It does not exist in models,
in the same way that a kiss does not exist in models, an embrace does not exist in models.
One being giving their life so that another may survive is not a model.
It's a relational transfer.
In the dimension of being.
It's a recognition, not merely of mutual concern,
but of mutual embodiment,
that our very bodies are the results, our minds are the results of these relations,
conserved and continued over unimaginable expanses of living time.
In this garden that I now walk in, 60 seconds might be more time than humans have ever measured,
because the humans measure time flatly with machines.
But living beings are embodied time, and all of them have different temporalities
that, as I've mentioned, become symphonic together.
And so, if we look just to the microbes, if we take just one form, the very tiny life,
we would likely find that some, we might establish in description some kind of conversion rate,
so that, let's say, an hour is approximately commensurate with
to be conservative a month in the life of an individual bacterium.
But in this little garden, there are more bacteria than there have ever been human beings.
And so, there are trillions, at least, of bacteria, all existing together,
hitchhiking on each other, supporting each other, opposing each other, colonizing,
arising, disappearing, reproducing.
And trillions and trillions of months
of comparable time happen in one minute in this garden,
in the same way that one human year is actually 7.8 billion human years,
if there are 7.8 billion human beings uniquely participating and experiencing it,
participating in and experiencing it.
And from this perspective, time is nothing like our ideas.
And in fact, could be understood as shockingly sophisticated dimension of relationships.
I wouldn't throw away flat time, but I don't believe in it. It's not real.
It's a convenience of description, measurement, modeling, useful, but deceptive.
We've all had experiences where a few hours might seem to last for months
or pass in what seems like no time at all.
And so, even our own temporal experience is in conflict
with the measured specificity of mechanical time.
One of the peculiar skills and abilities of our kind of animals is to produce
these sorts of representations. It's unfortunate when they ride us
into tragedy, confusion, blindness, loss of sensing, loss of relation, loss of intimacy.
And then, of course, when this happens, often these losses are represented
in photographs, theories, measurements, descriptions, commodities, transactions, so on.
There's a bizarre problem with Western thought.
And it's not merely Western thought, of course. It's just difficult for me to find a good
label or badge for it. Sometimes I just call it modernity, but that's a very
inexact word, very blurry, very vague. What does it mean?
But I suppose I mean the models of meaning, value, relation, time, identity that we inherit
and then tend to crystallize as we grow older.
And how bereft they are and dismissive
of our true nature as living beings and intelligences, as expressions of the entire
history of life, not merely on Earth, but in all places. For the life on Earth must be an expression
of the context with which and for which it arises and departs.
And this is why you'll often find me taking a critical slant or perspective
on what I refer to as a formal representational cognition.
But of course that's been a part of our toolbox for a long, long time,
evolutionarily. If indeed time is actually linear, another idea that I doubt. It looks to me
like there's something going on where the future is feeding back into the past.
And this moment is emerging both from the past and the future and is deeply profoundly related
in its expressivity, what it is expressing.
Time is among the most mysterious of ideas.
And I'm fascinated by the small
advancements I've been able to make in my thinking around temporality, life, intelligence, and light,
water, space, time.
It's beautiful to be able to share the story of the Newts
and to know that there are still some here and to have discovered a frog colony
during this moon cycle, katoi, which means approximately
we may require some assistance with eating. There's a couple of interpretations Ryan's presented
in his lectures and they're all useful. I wouldn't dismiss any of them.
But this refers to the great difficulty of obtaining food in the latter part of winter.
Many beings are starving. And this presents the opportunity to forge relationships by sharing food
and to nurture. And what is the word I'm seeking here to
to to celebrate and renew
these relationships and our own humanity.
For those of you who are interested, I hope you may take some time to listen to some of Ryan's
lectures and to participate in his missions, perhaps even to support them.
For I consider them invaluable and beautiful and noble in their way.
I've been watching the ground pass by me as I walk. And now that I've paused and I'm looking at the sky.
There's a there's a photic driving phenomenon.
This is the capacity to preserve
behaviors and situations in our nervous systems. For a short time,
usually beyond which they were being employed. So when I watch the ground flowing past me
for 20 or 30 minutes under my feet and I then look up to the sky, it appears
that the clouds are departing away from me. In a way not entirely dissimilar to how when one is
standing in the surf, one feels pulled backwards as it surges toward us and pulled
toward the ocean as it recedes.
I find this experience profound. The clouds are not doing
what my eyes and my felt senses transmit to me. Instead,
because my nervous system was doing was engaged in this particular form of seeing
where the ground is flowing past me and this also works with water. If you watch one spot on water
that's flowing long enough and then you look away, you may see your vision warping and flowing
in ways that aren't commonly familiar to us from unintoxicated states, but ways we may have
some familiarity with from states of illness, ecstasy, or intoxication.
Psychedelics seem to produce various kinds of driving phenomenon like this or
one moment.
They may also disinhibit features of our nervous systems
that are ordinarily engaged in maintaining stability.
Some of these may be inhibited. I think others are excited, catalyzed,
but to have one's vision flowing and changing
opens us to the perspective
that there are other ways of sensing
familiar to our bodies, unfamiliar to our expectations and thinking.
And when I see that flowing
with my eyes as the clouds recede away seemingly, I feel something unusual as well
and it's not merely disorientation, it's recognition, it's a memory of another way
of having a mind, a way that more resembles our experience while dreaming
than it usually does our experience while awake.
Perhaps today we have been dreaming together with the living places,
the plants and animals and insects, the waters and land and mountains, the deserts,
the forests, the rivers, the lakes, the oceans, the islands, planes, the meadows,
the frozen places, the secret places beneath the earth, the secret living places in the sky,
perhaps today, in remembering and speaking of these matters, we've opened a door together,
a door familiar to our humanity and our nature as animals and organisms
and often unfamiliar to our common modern habits of thought, description, speech,
behavior. I hope this may be the case in a way that is worthy and virtuous.
Thank you for joining me.
Perhaps soon we may remember together
how to participate
with the living beings and places in the news that is most trustworthy and true
and almost the polar opposite of what we're used to thinking of when we hear the word news.
I look forward to learning together again soon. Thank you.
