is the resurgence and the invitalization and the healing and the reformation
of aspects of our humanity with which we are ordinarily not familiar.
And one of the reasons why psychedelic drugs are popular in culture is
they have the capacity to forcefully shift our awareness and consciousness
from its ordinary forms and activities back towards something we might think of as more
essential, ancient, lost.
And though it's not my goal here to denigrate these medicines and these drugs,
I would say that it's important
to be careful and cautious about suddenly forcing our consciousness into another form,
even if it resembles something innate in us that's natural.
The conversation around these substances would for me be very complex and nuanced,
but I think our modern inclination to sightsee, spectate is problematical
for us and our development and the development of our intelligence and awareness.
So long ago one evening I was walking during the full moon
and I often noticed very small tiny things.
It's not that I only look at the ground while I'm walking,
but partly because I do not wish to kill things by accident
and it's pretty hard to avoid that as a gigantic monstrosity,
which humans are compared to small, very small creatures.
Nonetheless, I try to pay some attention and not just because I don't want to do harm,
but also because I want to see who is around.
And this is one of the strange things about English and Western culture.
We refer to plants and animals as what?
That's what is around, which inclines us, the connotation is that of an object,
a manipulable object, a disposable object, something we can ignore,
destroy, manipulate, test, experiment on, and so forth.
I've been fascinated by science and biology throughout my life. However, once I understood more deeply
the processes involved, I became really troubled
by the idea of a knowledge way that saw insufficient moral or ethical necessity
in their relationships with living beings. And what I mean is
to kill and torment animals and insects and plants and fishes and amphibians and mice and so on,
for the sake of producing what we refer to as scientific knowledge,
which is most often very mechanical, abstract, disembodied, and gets employed for purposes
I think we might object to if we understood them more deeply. I would, many of them.
It's not that science is particularly bad, science is an array of methods.
Rather, it's again the problem with our tools riding us and our strange propensity to keep producing
these kinds of tools and these kinds of relationships with our tools.
I think we don't have enough respect for this danger.
In any case, long ago I was walking in the night, the moon was shining,
and I saw on the ground something resembling an earthworm, but it wasn't.
It was a newt, the kind of small, chocolate brown, worm-like looking thing that you would just think
was a worm unless you looked close enough to see its very tiny legs and the fact that it has a head
and a tail. And I was completely shocked. I thought, oh my goodness, somewhere around here
newts are hiding, and I've never been able to find them, but for some reason on this night
they are out.
So, I was very surprised. Hello. To see a few newts out on the cement in the night,
and I realized, ah, it's the full moon. There must be something going on. There's a special event
happening here right now, today, where the newts that are ordinarily hidden emerge,
and they don't merely emerge. For some reason they can be found on the sidewalks, not a good place for
newts, and a few of them had been crushed by people stepping on them.
And so I realized, I just had this realization, oh my goodness, it must be that there's one special
moon time in the year when the newts emerge here in the city from their hiding places.
But it did not occur to me then to record that time and place. And so all that I really knew,
you know, later, was there's some full moon where the newts come out to mate.
Now some of these things were presumptions, right? Of course I never saw them mating.
Perhaps they were doing something else. And that's possible, yet it seems unlikely to me,
because I wasn't merely thinking about what was going on. It was as if the newts themselves,
having been somehow sensitive to my fascination with them, my reverence for them,
gave me a gift of understanding. Something was transferred to me in this way.
And that gift became very important for me. Now of course it wasn't the first
phenological event that I'd ever seen, right? I knew that the bees will make new hives in a
certain season. The butterflies will transform in a certain season. You'll find the caterpillars in
one season, the chrysalis in another, the butterflies and moths in another. I knew these things.
But I don't think I'd ever had any experience of these events being tied to the moon.
It wasn't until later, having been exposed to some degree to the sort of western myth of
Surround the Moon primarily, which is derivative of other knowledge systems and stories.
It never occurred to me that the living beings might be hitchhiking on the celestial beings
and their transformations. And if there's one thing that's staggeringly beautiful and obvious
and profound about life is that everything is drafting on each other. It's much easier to
accomplish certain imperatives under specific circumstances that support, nurture, protect,
catalyze these living temporalities of the world.
And all of the creatures, they hitchhikes the wrong word. Drafting is a little closer.
They take advantage of the transformations in flow, relation, time, temperature
that occur throughout each moon cycle, each solar cycle.
And this topic's infinitely deep.
You can certainly see humans hitchhiking, drafting on each other's thought, activity,
awareness in a way that we could understand as opportunistic. Birds traveling together
magnify their sensing abilities and their resilience
in ways that are extremely complex and in ways that involve each of the individuals we might,
each of the animals we might see as an individual, but also transforming those individuals
by giving them special roles in groups, flocks, schools of fish, so on.
So long ago, I saw the newts and I realized this is something very important.
And I linked it to the full moon in my mind, but I didn't know which full moon.
And so for many years, I think I saw the newts twice in the past 30 years here, so.
But I didn't know when. And I expected that it would be one of the moons that we associate
with spring, perhaps June.
And last night, I was walking and talking with one of my dear friends in Israel.
And I saw on the ground for the first time
in more than, in probably more than 20 years, I saw that one of these newts had been crushed,
which meant it had been out. And this was two days after the full moon.
And it had been there long enough that I could ascertain it was very likely
that this full moon in Katoi is the one where the newts emerge from hiding, perhaps to mate
and renew the ancient cycle of life and relation they embody.
And I was unhappy that the newt was dead, but I found, but I was happy because now I knew
in which cycle this happens, which means next time, if I live, I will be able to go out and see them
on the full moon in Katoi. I mispronounced it slightly. It's more like
something like this.
And so that was astonishing. I was so happy to have come full circle,
to have learned something of the moon cycles and their unique,
the unique transformations and relationships that are renewed and re-embodied by the living places
over the cycle of a year. Now, of course, there are longer cycles. There are cycles that are 10
years long. There are cycles that are 50 years long. There are all kinds of
complex synchronizations in organisms over time. I think I remember hearing that I can't remember
the exact interval, but some scientists had discovered, I often get really worried when I
hear this phrase, scientists have discovered something. I'm like, well, that thing will be
dead quick. And this is too often the case. When it was ascertained that the
bristlecone pines were among the oldest organisms on earth, an arborist or biologist took a core
sample, not understanding that the nature of the bristlecone pine is to have a very thin
sort of strand of living tree buried within layers and layers of material that's no longer
actively live. And in taking a core sample from this tree, he killed it. And this happens over
and over again. We find something very old, we kill it. We discover a new life form, we kill it,
and bring it back to the lab for dissection, classification, measurement, and so on.
That's a deeply tragic loss for us, also for the beings who are killed, obviously. But it's tragic
for us because killing is a really shitty way of knowing. And killing simply to gain mechanical
understanding might be even worse, often is worse. So I get very nervous when I hear that
scientists have discovered something new about life or life forms, because it's not clear to me at
all that that discovery is going to be beneficial for us as living beings, or for the beings with whom
we relate, and those that science turns its awareness towards, or scientists turn their
awareness towards. And I would say that the purposes, there's something wrong with these
purposes that produce clinical knowledge. Not that I'm opposed to clinical knowledge,
or necessarily the methods we use to derive it, but there are vast layers and branches of those
methods and domains, and many more layers and branches of how that knowledge is eventually
applied and for which purposes that I find terrifying and wrong, fundamentally wrong.
So last night, after discovering the newts, or anute, and realizing the full moon has just passed,
completing that 30-year circle. Oh, so I was telling a story. The scientists had discovered a
patch of microbes in the Arctic that appear to draft on long-term solar cycles,
so that they might come to life and reproduce, and I, again, I can't remember the interval,
but let's say once every 300 years, or 1,000 years, or 5,000 years, they're following intimately
transformations in the Sun, Earth, Moon relationship.
And I found that so amazing, but this is just an example to illustrate that our temporality
kind of naturally limits us to scopes that are at least within our lifespan
and rhythms that are relatively easily recognizable from our human temporal perspectives.
The moon cycle is a very accessible perspective,
and I guess it works out to 28 to 29 days, but I'm not sure about that.
So I took a picture of the newt, the crushed newt that I found.
Not really as a memento,
but as a reminder of which day this year that happened on. And, of course, we can use various
systems together. We can have the sort of Gregorian system overlaying the moon cycle systems.
But what's deeply important to me is not these systems, though their capacity to draw us in
to deeper, more meaningful relationships with living beings in places is profound,
and this is what I find, you know, part of what I find provocative and beautiful.
I'm more interested in the invisibles. I'm more interested in
the aspects of knowledge that are not conceptual, not intellectual,
not descriptive in the sense of being models or representations, but that are transports,
that are doorways, that our interiority under some circumstances is invited into relation with,
meaningful deep relation. And the story of last night continues in a strange and unexpected way.
So on part of my walk, there's a very steep hill.
And I take this route in part for exercise because there's some good hills and I'm getting on in years.
And as I was ascending the hill,
there was a peculiar event. I was still on the phone with my friend in Israel and
a rather troubled man across the street began to try to communicate with me. Of course,
I had my earpods in and it was clear that he was nervous and fraught and he asked me
if I might be so kind as to make a phone call for him, or rather he asked if he could use my phone.
And I explained, well, I'm on the phone, so let me tell my friend I'll call them back.
And I caused the call, branded it, and then he explained his predicament and why he couldn't
use his own phone and asked me to make a call for him because people were going to come
and take away his belongings in this coming week if he didn't receive the protection of an ally.
So he wanted me to call and I did that for him and he was pleased
and offered to pay me, but I told him that his comfort was more than sufficient.
And then, you know, that little adventure came to a close, but as it did, because I didn't have my
earpods in and I have walked up the street 50-60 times in the evening. As that adventure
drew to a close, I realized that I was hearing something I've never heard in the city and
I've been around it a lot. I'm not saying I know it really well and there are no frogs here, but
the lake that surrounds Strawberry Hill had one bullfrog, and I know of the frogs in the little
pond, but I've never heard their nocturnal chorus, and the nocturnal chorus of frogs
is an incredible thing, an astonishingly beautiful, deep, rich thing, and a doorway to something
if only we could understand how to respectfully and reverently participate in that doorway.
It's a doorway to other intelligences in nature and time, or so I understand it,
and so I was shocked. I was hearing the nocturnal chorus of many, many frogs,
and I called my friend back and I said, there are many frogs here. I think I'm going to go looking
for them, come with me, and maybe you will hear them, and she could hear them eventually over
the mic. Now the situation was quite complex. I was near a schoolyard. The schoolyard had multiple
levels above that. There was a hill, and when I first went back to find the frogs that I
remembered hearing, there was no frog sound. There was the ordinary, or the extraordinary,
really evening chorus of birds, but no frogs. And without needing to complicate the story,
it took a while, but I was very concerned that what I might be hearing wasn't frogs at all.
There was a machine emitting frog sounds, because if you go to certain places in Golden Gate Park,
you will find machines emitting the sounds of living things,
recordings. Now of course you can usually tell they are recordings because there's a regularity to
them that's unnatural. So I wandered around for a while and I thought maybe the school has put in
speakers to produce frog sounds so that the children who go there, I don't know. I mean,
you finish the statement for me. Personally I despise these recordings and the incessant
replacement of nature with representations, machines, pictures, recordings, so on.
But after careful exploration, and again when I first went back there was no sound,
but it started up again. And after I explored for a bit, I found out where the frogs are,
and they are definitely frogs, and there must be hundreds of them, and there are different kinds of
them. So there's a little pool of some kind up on top of the hill above the school, and that pool
is filled with frogs. And isn't it remarkable that on the same night
that I discovered a newt, I also found the first place I know of around here
where there are many frogs. And I was so happy to hear them.
And they are certainly aware in their own embodied way, probably not in a conceptual way,
of the transformations of threat and opportunity that happen
in very small intervals within a moon cycle. Each of the animals is like a kind of living time,
and by this I don't mean a clock. I mean a time being.
And their relationships form symphonies within symphonies, and these symphonies are not
our ordinary concepts, ideas, and clinical knowledge
are catastrophically insufficient to encompass what this means, what is actually going on
in the living music of beings in relation underneath the sun, underneath the moon.
And my friend in Israel could hear the frogs, and it was really beautiful.
Now of course, if anyone chose to, though I think they'd be missing out if they did,
