Our relationship with identity is the lynchpin on which the possibilities and dangers of
what we think of as our human intelligence, rest and pivot.
So what I'm speaking of is our experience of what things are, what things, beings and
relationships are, what they are, their identity, our own identities, and how we either become
more intelligent over time with this possibility of our minds or less intelligent and kind of
trapped in habits.
And these habits are dangerous and most of them are crippling, they're unnecessary, we
don't need to have them and we can easily have other experiences of identity.
But when we're going to do that we need to see into the problem somehow together.
How do we know what things are?
Well certainly starting out in life we don't.
And before we have language, in other words before we undergo the cultural process of
in-languaging, of being imprinted, but not just language but with its frameworks.
Our relationship with identity is far less formal and vastly more alive and diverse.
Everyone probably remembers being a child, and at least perhaps one time in their childhood
if not many times, hearing an adult proclaim about some fascinating object we acquired
or wanted to play with, which meant to learn about, the adult would say that is not a toy.
But to the child, to their experience of intelligence and identity, this proclamation can't be true.
And the reason it can't be true is that the child doesn't have an explicit class of objects
the way the adult does.
For a child to play with something is a method of learning and seeing directly.
A deep engagement and also a deep not knowing.
Not knowing what it is, the child is more oriented toward how they might relate with
it.
What could it become in relation, in my mind, in imagination, in wonder, in awe, in reverence,
in play?
As we become in language, we understand the adult's admonition, that some objects are
designed to be played with and belong rationally to the class of toys.
Others do not, and some perhaps are dangerous or even deadly when played with, just as some
others are dangerous and deadly when taken seriously, like guns, for example.
Our relationship with identity is fundamentally broken by language and our encounter with
knowledge.
And so I'd like to suggest that if we were to have an experience of the identity, something
more like the true identity, of a nat or a mouse or a seed, if we were to get, say, speaking
to the rational mind, a 5% of the true nature and identity when we encounter something, a
leaf of anything, a stone, that experience would be so overwhelming that it would stand
above all the rest of our human experience, shockingly, about that.
We don't know what things are, and there's a peculiar reason why.
The way we know what things are in language is peculiarly flawed.
We know what things are in language by comparison to other things we know from language.
How then do we know new things, or things that do not fit, or things that perhaps might
destroy, question, or re-engineer the entire structure of identity?
There are peculiar features to this relationship.
There is a structured array of ideas that underlie our experience of identity.
We can learn to see into and intelligently relate with these potentials the same way
we did with language as a second order of intelligence, but we don't usually, or very
few of us do, and those of us that do do so informally, sort of by ourselves.
So that we know what a tree is by comparison to classes.
It is a plant, it is vegetable, it is a living arrangement, and we think of it as fundamentally
distinct when we call it a tree, yet it cannot be that way.
Any tree is at least, I don't know, half its relationships and environment.
So when we say the tree, we exclude those, and we think of the tree as a distinct individual.
Yet, if we harm the tree, all of its relationships die too.
Those things we didn't notice in the other half of reality, at least half.
Maybe most of the tree is in relation, and not too much of it is in the thing we can
name as distinct.
Our language doesn't allow us to examine this very well, and yet it is the nature of our
minds and our humanity.
Our intelligence is mostly in relationships.
It's not mostly in my head, as we might imagine, as language might suggest.
But getting back to the structure, there's a peculiar feature of it that we can take
advantage of if we notice it, which is that in our relationship with identity, our experiences
form a hierarchy, such that identity is inherited from upper positions, or it is instanced in
products in a tree-like structure.
So that whatever is at the top, the supercontainer, we might call it, the bag, the set, the big
bubble that holds everything, identity descends from that toward the products of any way of
seeing or dividing the supercontainer.
In other words, what's the universe?
What is the universe?
For most of us, it's a pretty diffuse target that's a word with which we can indicate everything
that possibly is, everything that is, and has been, and may be, without saying anything
specific about it other than that's what we're indicating.
So it doesn't tell us anything about really what it's like, the big thing, and yet we
have the world, which is our little version of it, and perhaps that should tell us something
about what it's like.
Language gets in the way of that.
If we don't have a reasonably intelligent supercontainer, we just don't know what everything
is, there could be anything, then all of the identities below that, what the sun is, what
the world is, what an animal is, what a seed or a mouse or a nap is, what a word is, what
intelligence is, all these things no longer inherit anything from the supercontainer,
the supercontainer is blank.
Now God was the original kind of supercontainer, right?
If we knew sort of what God was, which is a strange idea by the way, to think that we
could know what it is, then we could know what everything in the universe was and was
for.
See how identity descends, right, from whatever we think everything is about.
But even if we just take the supercontainer down to the world, right, because a lot of
people would just say, well, I don't know what the universe is, but here's the world,
here's this, let's work with what we have here, our model of what the world is tells
us who to become, how to think, what kind of mind to form, and where that model is fictional
or poorly crafted at best, or if not, it doesn't correct itself toward verity or truth, then
we're in a deadly trap, right, because all of identity will inherit those fictions and
our relationship with identity will lack its authentic roots and true potentials.
We will dwell in a world of language and knowledge, and we will ask very strange questions as
if some things are good and some things are bad, explicitly, intrinsically, and as if
some things are normal and some things are not explicitly, as if normal were a real idea.
Language is very deceptive, but what I really want to point out is by changing the nature
of our relationship with identity, we can at once remove some of the layers of kind
of blind denotation of thinking that because I can say that's a tree, I know what it is,
and we can also have a direct experience, a true experience, of the nature of identity
and intelligence together in ways that are very rare for those who have not stepped beyond
the common traps comprised by our habits, what we think a human is supposed to be,
what we think a tree does, and what I, the real promise here, of course, is the promise of
more intelligence, but there's the promise of an experience, and that's what I'm hoping to
point out, and that experience is to encounter anything at all, but especially any living
thing in such a way as to have a true experience in relationship with identity. Now, that doesn't
mean perfect, it doesn't mean you would, for example, see a mouse and have an experience
of 100% of what the truth of a mouse actually is. What's really shocking is if any of us
could have even a small experience of this, of 2% of what a mouse truly is as opposed
to what we think about it, and our models and ideas and where it fits in our categories,
that experience would overwhelm our entire history of thought, shockingly like lightning,
with an ecstatic, awe-filled wonder of intelligent seeing as learning, and this is the nature
of our minds, and it is the promise of language and knowledge, and yet because of our peculiar
habits with them, because we are too easily beguiled by their very superficial, shall
we say, efficiency, we forget what lies underneath them, and vastly more of our intelligence
and that which we can experience in thinking and language is alive as our minds are ache
toward growth and learning, and yet trapped in this world of language we don't even have
the, we don't know what we're missing, we don't even have the excitement, we can't
tell what went away. How will we discover something more like what the supercontainer
really is? Well, we can forget about all the projections of culture to begin with, all
of the ideas of religion and science, we can leave them at the door, we don't have to get
rid of them, but we're not going to see them as authoritative, and like children, having
experienced all those things, we will try to understand what it means to be alive, what
it means to relate directly with other living beings as a living being in a living environment
on a living planet in space. The actual experience of identity is not like language, it's not
like anything we can say, but it is somewhat like dreaming in that it is a redolent of
a profound dimension of meaningful intelligence, that language is somehow the exhaust product
of, the leftover remains the skeletal trace of, but we must have the living experience.
And this is where our minds were born, and the true purpose for which they arise, how
ironic that together we practice something that explicitly inhibits and denies that,
and even raise up gods of science and religion, instead of true relation and discovery. Something's
wrong and it's been wrong for thousands of years, but it hasn't been wrong in the same
way the whole time. It's been a progressive problem, where the possibility of knowledge
saying I know what that is and feeling good about it, oh, I don't have to be terrified,
it's a tree, just like all the other trees. Yes, it's just like the word tree, and all
the other words, like that, but that tree, its identity is nothing like that. And the
identity of the sun, the identity of a worm. The shocking thing about this is, whatever
we think things are, we become that kind of thing. So if we think things are easily denotable
in categorical frameworks, then we become that kind of thing. We think, well, I'm that
kind of thing too. I am a human. I know what that is. No one knows what that is. No one
has ever known what that is. And those who know when they speak of it, those who know
something interesting about what that might be, when they speak of it, you will notice
reverence and intelligence, a depth and sensitivity, unlike common language. They may have to speak
in song. They may have to speak in broken language that makes no ordinary sense. Because their
experience of identity overwhelms categories, and overwhelms all the projections of the
thinking mind on reality, completely overwhelms them. To have the slightest experience of the
identity of a living thing in relation with it, in true relation, is an experience beyond
anything promised by religion, and it cannot be hinted at in science. These ways of knowing
have a different purpose. Their purpose is to tell us what things are or do in very limited
and frameworks from very limited perspectives, from perspectives that have agendas, a desire
to tell us what things are and do for a reason. It's not that these frameworks don't have
use. All of them can be useful when they're intelligently understood and their dangers
can be seen. So to their opportunities. Always these are the polarity, right? The dangers
always imply the opportunities, and it's the same with our relationship, with identity
and language. But what I really want and hope for here is that you'll begin to be very skeptical
about what you think things are, and how you know what they are, and how you came to think
you know what they are. And I promise you that whatever things and relationships, beings
and the world and the sun and the sky might be, whatever they may be, they're nothing
like what we think they are. And to encounter any of these things directly would completely
overwhelm your entire history of relationship with language and identity, and this is one
of the reasons why common people avoid this experience. Or they may, if rather adventurous,
seek some kind of other way out, some practice or perhaps a psychedelic intoxicant that
would take them outside for a moment, outside the normal experience of identity, into at
least some other experience. And notice that language and science and religion are precisely
these kinds of things. Science changes our relationship with identity, whether we practice
it or are exposed to it. Religion, whether we practice or are exposed, changes our relationship
with identity, and dominates it in various ways, and delimits it in many, many shocking
ways, especially for a way of knowing that claims such profound authenticity, such incredible
unquestionable authority. The proclamations that emerge from this authority are extremely
bizarre given those projections of its supposed character. There's a terrible conflict there
that's been obvious to everyone, even the religious throughout the entire history of the problem.
So I hope that you'll begin to question what your relationship with identity is and to take
the locks off the idea that you know what anything is, especially you, especially your mind. You
and your mind are not like anything that you can compare them to. To know what they are like,
you would have to go beyond culture and perhaps see what are they instances of? What is above them
that generates these as organs of itself? And what is above them is of course the universe,
the sun, and what is all around them is a living world floating in time space. It's nothing like
the things we've been told about it. It's beyond the wildest dreams we've ever made. The fantasies,
the science fiction, the religions. Any living thing is so shockingly beyond them all that
we're going to get a taste of it. You wouldn't be much interested in all the other things because
that taste would be like a drop of the nectar from the living fountain.
Once from our minds and souls came forth a taste of home alive and true and present
and a taste of intelligence so shocking that nothing in human culture compares to it.
There's nothing like the source from which our strange and often disembodied functional
representations arise. That source is true and pure beyond all words. And like our own minds,
most of which is hidden from our consciousness and thought. Most of which is not like language.
Most of which is like our hearts. But even these lie undiscovered and too quickly spoken of.
The question that comes to life in relation to identity is a living star of intelligence.
And so I encourage you to doubt that you know what things are and to question the strange
projections of language and to look into this structure where a supercontainer whatever you
think the big thing is tells all the little things inside it what to be. Change the supercontainer,
you've got a different world in your mind. Any slight correction to the idea of what the world is
will radically transform your intelligence. Anything that gets you closer to what it really is
different from what we think it is. So to an organism, the sun, human culture, language itself,
look very deeply into these matters. And I promise you'll discover something very shocking.
The true relationship with identity is much more like dreaming than it is like thinking.
And it has many dimensions of incredible vitality and diverse intelligent beauty
that are absolutely unavailable in our ordinary relationship with language,
what things are, how we know what things are, and memory. Good luck. I hope you'll have
something new to see and perhaps even a new way of looking.
