Hi. Today is Thursday. I believe it's December. Actually, I'm not sure what day it is. I think
it's maybe the 9th? I'm not even sure. It's 1.59 a.m. I'm here to talk to you today about
facts that relate to how authority or how we how we relate and communicate and are
bound to and are often destroyed by our relationship with authority in general and specifically
with falsified authorities. A false authority is one-sided in every case. And when generally
speaking when you are involved with any kind of a false authority, whether it be an educational
authority, a religious authority, a political authority, a legal authority, a medical authority,
or even an expert, what you most often have is a is a very one-sided, non-relational situation
where you're essentially being dominated and fleeced and often killed or badly violated
in a way that is cruel and human, unintelligent and basically just wrong. So I'm going to talk
a little bit about that in the specific domain of medicine. I am something of an intelligence
artist and what that means is I look for and develop intelligence everywhere that I go.
And for a long time I've been a diagnostician. The reason that I got started as a diagnostician
was because I was an emergency technical consultant. What that means is when somebody
has a very severe technical problem that they can't find anyone to solve and it's costing
them thousands or tens of thousands of dollars per minute, they call me. And this is what
I did for about 10 years prior to the change in how I lived my life. So essentially what
I did was I helped large companies deal with uncommon technical problems, usually with
networks, not generally with single machines, although I also worked on single machines
and I also worked for individual users all over San Francisco for about 10 years. Out
of over 15,000 calls, I had two I couldn't solve and that was merely because even though
I wasn't familiar, even in a situation where I'm not familiar with the technology that
the problem is resolving or revolving around, I can solve it in most cases very quickly.
And so through that process I learned to be, I learned some diagnostic skills and I developed
fairly excellent diagnostic skills because I had to work very quickly under high pressure
and there was a lot at stake. Also, because I was not necessarily in authority, I had
to produce actual results or lose my job. I could not really fool my clients. I could
not pretend to have done the best job that was possible and not have actually produced
a good result, which all of our authorities do all day long, all of them. In other words,
they produce either poor, either no, poor, cruel or lethal results and it doesn't matter
what they do, they get celebrated in tons of money. That means basically apocalypse.
So if you have a disagreement with someone, both sides often feel that their side is actually
the only truth and that they just want to tell the other person what their side is and
then dominate that person and have them agree. And that's not intelligence. Intelligence
is like, you know, there might be some balancing, but eventually there's some of this. There's
at least both sides have a conversation. Also, when there's a problem, both sides have a
role in the problem and they both sides have a role in the solution and the expert's role
is not to tell the other being just what to be. But it is to help to catalyze both insight
and flow because when a problem arises, there's usually a kind of a locked quality to it, especially
with health and the flow in a sense has been interrupted. And this is exactly what people
were paying me to resolve because they had a workflow that got locked by something that
no one could figure out how to unlock. So they would have me come and figure out how
to unlock it as quickly as possible. The most money I ever made doing that was $3,000. It
took me about four minutes. So that was $1,000 a minute. You can do the math for how much
that is an hour or per day or week. I was paid that much money because I can do what I do
really well and quickly and in a friendly, exciting fashion that generally helps everybody
learn a lot and be really involved in the process and feel like something amazing happened
because it usually does. This is what happens when we're intelligent together. Okay, it's
happening when we have an actual like a proversation, which is a with a conversation, but it's both
sides and they link and they produce this complex solution like structure by the way,
solution flow, right? Resolution, reflowing. So what I want to talk about specifically
is medicine because in my own life, I've been nearly destroyed by it. And my recent experiences
with medical doctors are so ridiculously absurd that if I were that really, we're just doing
it wrong. And I don't mean like kind of wrong, we're doing it completely wrong. Let me explain.
The first thing is when you have authorities who in any way, surveil or get data on you, you
have to do the same to them, you have to surveil and get data on them with the same sort of
order of intelligence and power that they have and force. So that if they say blah, blah, you
have data, okay, not just an idea, to the same way they have data, right, they have, they have the
data of their expertise and their studied and their very specific modes of looking at certain
kinds of problems as in medicine. And by medicine here, I'm speaking specifically about what we
call allopathic medicine, which is the medicine that comes from what we understand as medicinal
science. That is an extremely, extremely narrow field of expertise. And it's wrong minded because
the organism is not an objective entity, it never was. And treating it that way is possible. But
the results are generally catastrophic. And if it becomes a one excited conversation, it's
absolutely catastrophic. Let me explain. So the reason that I'm talking about surveilling the
experts is that we need to have data to show them when they are wrong. Let me explain what's not
happening in our medical system on a superficial level. And then I'll show what's not happening on
a deeper level. What's not happening on a superficial level is any kind of conversation. When
people go into the hospital to see a doctor, they are told what to do. That's it. And ordinarily,
speaking, the way they are told is as if they were an object. They do a few tests, they get a
little data, they throw drugs at you, if it doesn't work or kills you too bad. And not only that,
there's no efficacy tracking. None. In other words, no one is really testing or publishing the
results of treatment. If they are, it's published only for insurance companies and for medical
professionals, we see none of that. Therefore, we can't tell if the doctors are succeeding,
failing or what. We don't know what happens in our hospitals. What we do know is that it's
probably the single most dangerous place for you to ever go. Unless you're going there for a very
brief stay for a very simple reason, or you're just going there for like an emergency room visit,
you're in real, real danger there. And there's lots of reasons why. One of the reasons why,
which I discovered 15 years ago, medical science would not listen to me at all, is that we have a
microbiome, which is a complex planet like, it's as complex as the planet. Okay, we have a complex
ecosystem of organisms in our bodies, actually not in our bodies, comprising our bodies. Let me
explain a little bit about that. We are in a sense like the tree of evolution of life on earth. So
we come up to a point kind of like this. What's down here at the bottom? Funguses. What's up the
next level? Viruses. What's up the next level? Bacteria. The next level at the top, animal cells.
And the animal cells, there's one more level, which is organs. And those are complex, basically
animals inside us. Your bones are an animal, your blood, an animal, your tongue, that thing. Look
at that. Almost every animal on earth has one of these. It's an animal. This is an intelligence.
Okay, it's a fully fledged intelligence. If you remove it, your intelligence will suffer, your body
will suffer, your health will suffer, because what you have here is really more like a zoo than it is
like a group of machines. Okay, and what our science does is treat it like we're a group of
machines or objects that have little data points that they can just nudge. Wrong. No. Actually,
that's how you kill an organism. So the first thing we need to realize is what's the nature of the
combination that produces an animal like us. Well, here's what it looks like. I don't know the exact
numbers on the very on the most primitive cells, but for the fungal cells, I'm going to guess
50,000 trillion objects in our body of fungal cells for many of us, between 5,000 and 50,000
trillion. For the viruses, I'm going to guess about 5,000 trillion. I don't know the numbers on
that yet. I think we may have some vague estimates on that one. For the bacterial cells, approximately
500 trillion cells. And for your animal cells, 50 trillion cells. And what that means is that
your bacterial the bacterial component of your body is 90% of your cells by volume by number.
Okay. So you have 90% nine times the amount of bacterial cells that you have animal cells. But
until very recently science didn't even think of those as you. In fact, when you went to the doctor
almost no matter what was wrong with you, they would burn down your commensal microbiota with
antibiotics and they call that medicine. Okay. No one really tracked what the results of that
was and we're still not doing it because we don't have a way to do it. We don't actually understand
the commensal microbiota at all. We're just learning about it now. And it's most it's a highly
organized intelligence and it's a regulating system in our health just like the viruses are
and underneath them probably we will discover the fungal elements are. So for almost all of
modern medical history, in fact for all of it, we've been ignoring the fact that 90% of our body
is bacterial. Okay. In terms of cell count. And we've been burning that down in the same way
we've burned down the rainforests and the oceans to produce data or to get, you know, product or
to get some result we like. And as we're doing that, our biology and our intelligence and our
relational intelligence as human beings, our purpose of intelligence as collectives is being
obliterated. It's being replaced by extremely dominating expert sort of tyrants that destroy
life and just tell you how to die essentially and charge you every price for that. Now this
doesn't mean that you can't get a medical solution from allopathic medicine. What it does mean is
that the experts there are not experts. They're idiots actually. And the idiot is someone who
lives in a world of their own and goes around telling other beings. They're not connected to
the world. They're not relating at all. They're just telling other beings very ignorant things
about what they are, what they should do, what they must do, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Now if we have sous valence, sous valence, which is the opposite of surveillance, we
surveil those who surveil us, okay, which is something the author David Brin, someone I'm
very fond of but who's also extremely conservative, is on about a lot. I'd like to encourage you to
look into his writings on sous valence because sous valence is a crucial aspect of human intelligence
and it's actually what's missing from the internet. We're not getting the intelligence we're producing
on the internet. Those expert tyrants like Google, Facebook, Twitter, they're they're just
fleecing whole new modes of intelligence from our behavior which we see none of, right. So these are
actually a new form of tyrannical collective that basically just fleeces us of new forms of
intelligence that we could produce and share with each other and benefit from wildly and then
sells us little tiny pieces of that back. When you go to see a doctor, this is not a person
equipped to diagnose a living being. This is a person equipped to diagnose a mechanical situation
in general. I have watched them kill my friends and family outright, just kill them and call
it treatment. In my own case which I'm not going to discuss, I can't even get any kind of reasonable
medical attention, advice, etc. Because the doctors in general and the system in general,
the system that they are part of, is tyrannical. It's some, it is itself a disease. It's ripping
the planet apart, tripping our cultures apart and we're being basically charged to be violated
and we're being charged extreme amounts of money. Just a simple example, I recently paid
almost $2,000 for a simple blood test to have my blood pressure checked and to have a doctor treat
me like an idiot for two hours and there was no treatment, there was no diagnosis, there was no
analysis of the health issues that I have. What there was, was an expert who could not in any way
connect with the patient, an organism, life itself, disease, healing, diagnostic skill,
anything. He's just such an expert and he's so well paid, he doesn't have to listen to anyone
ever again for any reason. Unless he gets in a court case, in which case he hires a lawyer,
another expert who basically just backs him up with a sword. We're dying of this. Our whole
nation is being ripped apart and what's happening in our hospitals and doctors offices is a seething
lie. It is not healing. I'm going to explain a little bit about that. As a diagnostician,
what I discovered during helping people with, during my work helping them with computer issues
was that many of the issues that arose were actually emotional issues. They had an emotional
component, even in computer users. In health, this is vastly more true. When we have a health
problem, we are actually signaling about two, at least two things. The first is the ecological
environment, the context that we are immersed in. What is the nature of these contexts? This is
completely ignored by medicine. We're treated as if we are the cause. This is the same thing that
happens in law. We torture children that produces criminals because actually it is supposed to
produce criminals if you torture children. That's how you learn that you're torturing children,
is that you get criminals. If when you get criminals, you then attack that signal,
what happens is this. You don't trace the signal back to its cause. You don't re-resolve that. You
get hypercriminals on the next phase. You're breeding criminals and pretending it's individual
problems. It's Joe. It's Tim who killed 50 people with the shooting. Wrong. It's us. Our cultures are
poisonous and that's why we produce, that's why they produce criminals as signals. Our cultures
are poisonous. That's why they produce tyrannical experts as almost demonic overlords, okay,
literally, because with or without religion, what they're doing is absolutely wrong and it's
wrong in such a fundamental way that it's evil. It's the opposite of being alive. It's just the
reverse. It's the reverse of live. In order to understand and do something about this, in order
to have a positive road that we can choose together to go forward into, the first thing we need is
some information on what the problems are based on and the second thing we need is the agreement
to learn and grow and explore this together both with the experts and together as their
subjects. I don't even know what they think of us as. I guess they think of us as
patients. Well, we sure need a lot of patients these days to deal with people this ignorantly
proud of their bizarre status above us. The first thing I want to mention about illness
is this. In studying various relational technologies, one of these is very badly
mis-conceived as hypnosis and I don't really believe in hypnosis at all. I think we don't
understand what relation is. We don't understand much about what intelligence is
and hypnosis is actually another form of intelligence. It's not a trick.
We use trance all the time. Hypnosis is a way of entering another form of intelligence.
In studying trance and all of the different phenomenon that can be catalyzed and can be
observed in trance, I began to realize that illness was deeply, deeply a problem based
on human relation and also emotions and not just in the individual but in their relational
contexts, in their families, in their social groups and in their relationships with
various collectives, which almost all of our collectives are false and they're dominating
authoritative false collectives, even the ones that pretend to be for us. Even our
subcultures that we sort of join as hobbies or fans are very, very toxic and they crush us down.
They don't give us roles. So part of the problem with illness is simply that we are not relating
with one another or our environment and we get sick because we don't relate with our food sources
directly, which is absolutely crucial if we don't get the bacterial symbionts that we need
to deal with those food sources adequately. We also don't get the bacterial symbionts we need
to avoid things like allergies and what I would call immune dysfunction or autoimmune dysfunction
where aspects of your immune system, which are a relational intelligence,
misfunction wildly because they have been misinformed about the nature of the context
we live in by the way we live in the context. This creates disease. It has to create disease.
If it didn't, we would die because we wouldn't be able to see the problem. We wouldn't be able to
take the disease and trace it back to its sources in our relationships and environment,
fix those and then that's the way you resolve the problem. Now of course you do have to cure
this too or you have to help the person with the problem in the immediate moment,
but the way that you do that best is by tracing it back to sources, not by throwing bullets at it,
which kill the person and their other organs and do way more harm than good. The first rule
of medicine is do no further harm. We have ignored this rule completely and the first rule really
should be understand the nature of intimacy. Let me explain why. A person who is ill has a role
that we're ignoring. We pretend that they are suffering from bad luck or that they've maybe
done something wrong, made a mistake and this is well understood in the psyche of the person
who is sick, but they may not be able to say it. Now a long time ago what used to happen before
there was any kind of allopathic medicine was that someone would get sick in a community.
