So this is a situation like this where this could be many more than five people
and this is what holds them all together and it's real. It's a matter of absolutely shared mutual
concern and complete agreement among all these members. This would be the leader or the sort
of the star of the little solar system. So in the old groups what would happen when someone got sick
is everyone would come together around them and it would draw everyone into very tight close
intimacy and they would dance and sing and the medicine man, the leader, would not really be
the tyrannical expert. What he would be is the seeker who would go back to find the problem
that was being signaled and then would, by addressing that problem, cause a radical change of flow
and lock, locking, in the signaler, who was not really seen to be the problem.
What seemed to be the problem was relation. This is the result of misrelation and since
they understood this when someone was sick what happened was really shocking. Their entire community
was reborn. It was corrected. It was very deeply and profoundly reeducated and it was reborn as a
unit all together and so in other words one person got sick. This person became fiercely
educated by that because this is their diagnostician and these people all had roles in healing them and
this worked like magic because the nature of illness is relational first, mechanical second or
third or fourth. So we go and treat it as mechanical first. We ignore the relational aspects in general.
We just flush them down the toilet and we create experts who believe this is the right and good way.
It cannot be thus. So one of the things that we can do is first of all we can we can just begin
to understand and explore these ideas together which is what I'm recommending here and asking us
all to do and please we really need to do this now. We need to do it publicly in open dialogue with
both allopaths and others, homeopaths and such. Not that I believe in homeopaths either. They're
doing the same thing basically. They're kind of again they're not creating this. See that's a
problem. If you're not creating this, if you're not acknowledging this and you're just treating the
process mechanically like you're the diagnostician, you can figure it out, you can solve it alone.
You might be able to, even as a non-allopathic practitioner or an allopathic practitioner,
you're going to have occasional luck. You're just going to solve a problem once in a while and it's
going to be great. Everyone's going to be happy. But the allopaths, there's something we don't realize.
Our medicine is killing us. When you go to the doctor to get medicine you're being destroyed
probably eight times out of ten and the products that we use as health products are not healthy at
all. We shouldn't use any of them. I long ago realized if I got a cold or a flu and I just
avoided all medication, arrested and drank a lot of liquids, took a few spices, I would get sick,
I would get sick for a very brief time and I would get well far faster than any of my friends
were taking medicine. Who all recommended that I take medicine? Why? Because that's what they
were taught to do. But the medicines actually put further stress on their metabolism and they
don't help in most cases. There are cases where they do help. I don't want to say we should never
take medicine. I'm saying our intelligence about how we do it is broken badly. So what we need to do,
I think, first of all, is just look at these issues together and discuss them openly and
rationally but also creatively and in a way that focuses on the relational elements. The
focus is on the fact that an individual is a signaler about a miscontexted relational situation,
trace that back, try and learn how that got started, find the actual culprits which are
invariably false collectives selling products and making us into products invariably. 90%
of our illnesses come from this. Yes, there are genetic illnesses and things. They don't get
expressed in or they don't express the same way in tightly knit relational contexts. And we're
producing those problems en masse and not taking any responsibility for it and pretending it's
just an accident or something wrong. We set those people up for cancer. Every single one of us are
corporations. In fact, we set people up for prison in the same way. I mean, a long time ago,
Guy invented ethanol. We put in all the gasoline. It actually attacked everyone's nervous system so
that produced the criminal behavior for which everyone was tortured, punished and killed.
But what about the people who sold us the gasoline? Well, they just made lots of money
and they're still standing above us. So our hospitals and our doctors are badly wrong-minded
in general. There are a vague few of them who are decent diagnosticians, even in that paradigm,
but the paradigm is completely broken just like our governments are. We need to realize that
medicine has to be deeply relational and that when someone is sick, what's really going on
is two things. The first is a call to unity. Our experts need to be reeducated, not tell us what
they know. And our people have to have roles that are meaningful and intimate with the person,
with each other, with the expert. Number one, that doesn't work. If that's not happening,
we don't have medicine. We've got a stick with one snake around it. And that's not medicine.
That's a demon, just bluntly. The second thing is we've got to trace things back to their causes
in relation and the environment. Not in like a superstitious way, but it is a poetic way. So
it's not purely rational. And we need to resolve those issues in the environment that produce
the dis ease that we go for treatment for. We need to stop the whole hospital idea.
That's a death camp. That's essentially a glog. No, that's the wrong way to do it.
We've got professional experts treating people like objects. And even if they care about them,
and many of them do, particularly the nurses are heroically powerful. It's just
we isolate the sick person. That's exactly the wrong thing to do. Now, of course, if they're
contagious or something, we need to be cautious. But we're just putting them in a place that's
hyper contagious. So you get a person who's sick, you put them in hyper contagion, isolation,
no relation. And we call this medicine, then we pour poisons into their body and they die.
Now, of course, we burned down most of their body, maybe we accidentally burned down the
thing that was killing them too. That's the dumbest possible way to attempt to heal anything.
If I had tried that in my business with machines, I wouldn't have lasted a day because the results
would have shown that I was an idiot. Okay, I would have made zero money, no claim, no clients,
I would have had no practice. We've got the opposite, you can fail wildly and just get richer
and richer and more powerful and more powerful. Because no one's looking at the data. When a
doctor prescribes medicine, we don't know what happened. How do you figure out what happened?
Are they even tracking it? No, they don't track. See, they don't have to care if you got cured or
if you died. They don't even have to care. No one knows. Just like our police, okay. Currently in
the United States, the police are doing far more violence than the SS or the Nazis or, you know,
any of the, any of the sort of demonized icons of history that we have that we think are absolutely
abominable. The United States police are doing more violence to US citizens every, you know,
every week, probably, every month than any of those people that we despise in our myths. And
we're not even noticing why we don't have the data. How do I know that? I actually did the research.
95% of the complaints against the police in my city were completely destroyed
in 1996 or something, right? That was millennia ago. These days, about 1% of them get through,
okay? So all the data of what the police are doing to our citizens, I don't mean just,
just the people who get arrested. I mean what they're doing every day to people on the street.
We don't even hear about it, okay? It just gets buried. And it's the same thing with our doctors.
They can do anything they want. They can prescribe anything they want to you. No one's tracking it.
There's a little bit of tracking in the hospitals, but you don't get to see that. I don't get to see
that. We know nothing about what their performance rates are. Nothing. They don't have to perform at
all. They can kill you and it won't even matter. As long as you don't sue them, no one will ever know.
And even if you do sue them, big deal. There's a data point. The insurance rates change. So what?
They don't have to change what they do. I went directly into hospitals and interviewed doctors.
I stood next to a neurosurgeon while she took the top of the guy's head off and operated on his
brain. I know exactly what they're doing in the hospitals. I spent eight hours in that operating
room, by the way. And what I saw in that operating room convinced me of one thing. I'm never going
into one. Ever under any circumstances. Because what happened in that operating room with one of
the finest expert neurosurgeons in our nation was so shocking that if I told you the story,
you'd be weeping and frustrated and terrified. I'm not going to do it. It's just not unfriendly.
What I want you to understand is what's happening in the hospital. I'm an expert diagnostician.
I can fix problems. What's happening in our hospitals is dead wrong. Dead wrong. It's killing
our children, our elderly and our families. It's destroying our health. We're paying shocking
amounts of money for it. Insurance is a complete scam. That was invented by people who come and
threaten you. And then if you don't pay, they burn your house down. That's exactly what's going on
here. We've paid 10 times over for health care. That's actually health atrocity. And we're just
paying to be murdered. No more of this. We need to understand something. Our collectives have to
be real collectives. They have to be based on things like us. This is the model of my own body.
Okay, first I am one, but I am connected to all other beings. Then I have separate sort of elements,
but they're not really separate, are they? And then I exist in a family like this, or I don't exist.
See, we got so the opposite idea that you're a broken off individual thing. And when you're a
patient, you're a broken off individual thing. They isolate you. It's a lie. You can't live that way.
You can't survive that way. Your chances of healing in that environment are so slim that I
don't even understand how anyone could think that was medicine. Another thing I want you to know
is that when I was a young man, I worked in a hospital all the time for a year and a half for
three nights a week, four hours a night I spent in the intensive care unit with
people who needed someone to just be with them. They called me a hospital chaplain. It was not
a religious position. I was just there to be a sort of an ally and an advocate who was unknown
to the person, a stranger, who could really just be with them and listen or talk or whatever they
wanted to do. So I would just come by and say, hey, how are you doing this evening? Would you like
someone to talk to? And of course, I was very young. I was well-dressed and everything. And I learned
more during that experience than I think I may have learned in any other simple experience like
that in my life. Watching what happened in the hospitals was terrifying. It's wrong. We need to
do something about it. All of our collectives are false, okay? Our educational collectives,
our legal collectives, everything, our defense collectives. It's all false collectives. We're
producing false people, false intelligence. Our roles are falsified. And thus, we have to take
roles that are against our humanity, against our organism, against our ecology, against our
relationality, which is the basis of our humanity, and fundamentally against our unity. This has
to stop here. Together, with and for each other, the history of life on earth, our future, and the
promise of human intelligence, care, and wonder. That's my invitation. And that is an invitation
to health. I hope that you'll join me in my life for now. And thanks. We learn together.
