What does it do?
Why is there mass?
And again, one could say, well, we've made great progress in the past 75 years.
Incoming closer to understanding, except these topics are infinitely deep.
So coming closer doesn't help us a lot, and we're still confused by the fact that we refer to transcendental features.
We have distinguished in naming and language with tokens and symbols and words and equations.
Nonetheless, insights are what weave back together, what intellect first divided.
And the fundamental insight, or the is probably the wrong word.
There are a variety of fundamental insights that orbit the nature of the universe.
Light, time, birth and death.
What is a being?
Why are there beings?
What is the world?
What is the sun?
All of these things.
But these fundamental insights rarely arise for individuals except either by happy accident,
long fascination, or extremely strenuous practice, primarily the practice of meditation.
So the fundamental insight, the nature of fundamental insights is that they unify the entire field of knowledge.
They take all of the things that were cut apart by intellect, integrate them,
and rather than explaining them, deliver a direct experience of their nature, character, origin, activity, power, grace, beauty, ecstasy, emptiness.
That last word is commonly used in discussions about enlightenment.
We hear about void or emptiness.
But it doesn't mean nothing.
And nothing is one of the strangest concepts in the entire language.
If we understood this one token slightly better, our capacities for insight and intelligence would be radically transformed and perhaps improved.
Now, of course, one of the problems with intellect is that it seeks to improve things.
And someone who's close to me recently said, I think I mentioned something that I found frightening.
And they said, that's nothing.
What frightens me is when humans decide they're going to improve something.
Now we have a problem.
And I laughed with the laughter of insight, because that's hilariously true.
I smell that same fruit in another place, so I don't think it was merely, it must be blossoms.
I must be smelling blossoms.
Intellect seeks to improve, but the scope of its awareness is so narrow that it usually results in catastrophe.
The encoding of equals MC squared led to the capacity for modern nations.
And whatever those are, it's something terrible to produce nuclear weapons.
How tragic it is that such a fascinating insight would be so terrifyingly enacted.
So, this emptiness, you know, in the heart sutra,
where Avalokiteshvara is speaking to Shirdi Putra and transmitting to him in a kind of a song,
a miraculous catastrophe of insight,
he says all things are essentially empty, not born, not destroyed, not stained, not pure, without loss, without gain,
and a number of other things.
So, part of what Avalokiteshvara is trying to communicate is that our sensory experience is a kind of a dream,
and our waking world experience, dominated as it often is, if not completely deeply,
our intellect and categorization and class and set and instance is a mode of dreaming,
and that what's actually going on is formless and inviolate, eternal, incomprehensible to the intellect,
but available to the direct experience of human beings.
And this nothing, this void that is often referenced when words like this are used,
it might be understood as something like undifferentiated potential.
I often like to put the word pure before that phrase, but this time I won't.
I like the word pure, but I think there's probably a better word.
I'm at a loss as I stare at the night sky, trying to find a better word than pure undifferentiated potential.
Mysterious might be better, mysterious undifferentiated potential.
The before of form, the before of thought, the before of being, the before of matter, the before of universes and gods,
that from which all experience emerges as a peculiar aspect of its progeny.
By saying all things are essentially empty, the implication is that all things are inviolably unified and nothing is lost or gained.
There's nothing to attain, and part of why there's nothing to attain may be because the realization of origin and the nature of existence
is like the removal of many veils, each one of which structures the illusion, the dreaming, the awareness to produce a seemingly solid waking world of our experience.
So my insight was that insight is that which brings things back into union and demonstrates their relatedness in a new and astonishing, fascinating, intelligent and often ecstatically beautiful.
An intellect can lead to insight, but it prefers that which can be grasped and for something to be grasped it has to be separable and therefore cuts must be made.
And how we make these cuts and the purposes for which we use the knife determine the capacities of our human awareness and intelligence and perhaps our destinies.
So my little insight was about the nature of insight, a bit like my eyes seeing the photograph of my optic nerve, except that the photograph is a representation.
An insight is almost the opposite of a representation and sometimes directly the opposite of a representation, the actual opposite.
And this is important, this last little feature, because representations are toys and when they appear as the real, then we are in delusion.
It occurs to me that dreaming is a form of insight activity for many of us because it softens the distinctions that intellect would otherwise impose and merges them together in ways that were common to our experience as little children,
but become less common for most of us as we grow older and the repercussions of in-languaging and in-culturation have their way with our minds.
And it also occurs to me that our waking experience is a highly structured mode of something that resembles dreaming or perhaps is even the same faculty but is limited in ways that are difficult for me to describe easily.
More highly structured by the persistence of vision, the persistence of the world, the tree that was in front of my house last night, I fall asleep, it disappears, I awaken, there is the tree again.
The persistence, the seeming persistence of the predictable structure, the familiar structure of the material world in our ordinary waking consciousness.
Now there are many ways to transform that consciousness so that novel aspects of the seemingly concrete material world emerge to our awareness, but that's a topic for another time.
Thank you for joining me. I'm grateful to learn together, and I look forward to another walk sometime very soon. Bye-bye for now.
