And we think we know what she is and boy are we confused because if you get a taste, if you get just a clue, it's going to crack the shell of human culture so severely that the crack will not resolve.
And you're going to see even in the implication of this little crack that everything you believe about humans and nature is wrong.
In a fundamental way, a fundamental way that's more important than all of science, more important than all of religion, more important than all of philosophy.
And that way is you.
There's no way to explain this, but then you have to have the experience of it.
And the way isn't just you, the way is the way of you and nature as a unity, as mother, child, father, brother, sister, daughter, grandfather, grandson, granddaughter, grandmother, animal tree, the way of nature is you.
And what will happen during the second birth is you will be introduced to the authorities that are the sources of our religions and our sciences and they are not human.
I don't know what they are, no one knows what they are, but they're trustworthy.
We may not be, but these authorities in nature are trustworthy and they were the ancient companions of our development and intelligence and they were the guarantors of our life phases.
Divorced from them, we are bereft of ourselves.
And nature must exist in all her splendor for us not to be divorced from them, for if we assassinate her even slightly, the universes inside us die in proportion or maybe even in geometric proportion.
Because in some way we are a magnification lens for all of the relation that happens in nature.
It is magnified inside us in a dimension we have no name for, but is part of our souls.
And when I speak here of the second birth, when I speak of the second birth, I speak of direct encounter with these things.
Now, each time we dream, we're getting close. We're in the neighborhood.
But there's a way to have experiences while you are awake. That's not what I mean. You restate that.
There's a process, a terrifying process. It is like falling.
And we have some representations of it in story. Alice in Wonderland is a significant one that comes easily to mind.
This is a parable that can be understood as a map of one person's of the visionary element, the transmissible vision of their experience.
Not the experience itself, but the sort of signature of it. That's what it would be.
Now, two people that have undergone this will recognize each other instantly and they will also recognize anyone who's pretending.
It's just like if you've been to a river and tasted the water and know a certain place on the river that anyone who's seen this river would know.
And then you meet someone else and they say, yeah, I've been to that river. I've tasted that water and you ask them about the flavor and they tell you something that can't be true.
So then you ask them about that specific tree or that specific feature or whether the river contains a certain fish that you know to be there.
And you might even put false information in there and you can immediately tell each person, each man or woman, each child will know.
Now, here's the other strange thing. Little children know what I'm talking about.
Their gun, you're going at quickly fast because they're going through life change phases very quickly and they're growing at an incredible rate.
So they know, they know the pieces of what I'm talking about and young children know that the human cultural shell is toxic and that the adults are badly confused and they're afraid to become adults because of this.
We all spoke of this when I was little and perhaps you did as well. If you didn't, you knew it anyway.
Everything I've spoken of here is known. Nothing here is me. This is all knowledge inside us, a silent knowledge that we all carry.
It's very hard to learn to say or find within us and speak it.
It's difficult to explain how you can choose the path, the process of the second birth that leads you into an understanding of your real history, your real identity.
It leads you into contact with true knowledge authorities that will contradict those in human culture dramatically, all of them.
But it may build on some of them and it will demand shocking things of you that are very confusing.
For example, you will have to resist the urge to codify everything you discover and then tell it.
You'll have to resist the urge to make a system out of it, a religion, a part of culture.
If you make it a part of culture, you've killed it and frozen it, you've lost it.
In a sense, there may be exceptions. The process is fraught with dangers and opportunities.
It can kill you, it can destroy your mind. You will encounter such terror and beauty as you are not prepared to understand in your wildest hopes.
There's no way to prepare you and you shouldn't be prepared because part of the process is the demand that you decide for yourself what to do, how to respond, and that you make your own choices.
And as things are not pre-described or pre-defined to you, that you are free to discover in your own way because what you're carrying is that unique.
It's similar in many ways, but it's as unique as it is similar, so we have to be very careful not to frame it to each other or listen to what religions tell us.
They're lying. It should not be telling us that they have no authority to do that.
Only direct contact with the sources of story has authority.
Only direct contact with that which can teach you what time is about, what light is about, what a tree is, what the sun is.
What a planet means, what an animal is.
Not in a way that uses definitions, in a way that introduces you to a sense of these things that grows so shockingly that every time you touch it, it is as if you are flying in the dimension of learning.
There is so much more to say, but I think I've said enough for now, enough to digest.
I hope you found something intriguing here, and I want you to understand that we all deserve to have the life phases supported and not made into religions and not made into science, left natural,
and that we all deserve to have the second birth out of human culture, back into nature, and into an understanding of the deeper aspects of our humanity,
without which we cannot become mature or even intelligent. It's not possible.
Our cultures cannot become mature or intelligent because they will not know what the sun is, or a tree, or an animal, and if we have really, really bad ideas about this,
they basically inhibit our ability to become or hope for intelligence, and we get something that looks vaguely like it, but functions like it's opposite, which is most of what we've got.
There will be a lot more coming in future lectures. Feel free to share this one with anyone you think might enjoy it. Thank you so much for listening. I look forward to learning together. Goodbye for now.
