Hello everybody, welcome.
Today is a unique day in my life.
And all the days of my life are unique, though they are all days.
So where should we put the precedents?
On the uniqueness or on the category?
And by precedents I mean what leads our intelligence when we have thoughts in language?
Often it's something very dangerous.
But most of us are not aware of this danger consciously, even though we may sense it intuitively.
When we begin to think or speak with words, we're using specialized faculties that have
been handed down through countless generations.
We developed these potentials in childhood, and we continue to develop them in the sense
of adding to the structured foundations, but also hardening those structures in a sense.
And of course much of this depends on how we are relating with language and why.
So a linguist has a very peculiar fascination with the structures and forms and origins
sometimes of grammars and words.
And this is different from another person who might be a singer and write songs, or
a poet who makes of language something uncommon.
It's interesting that we call in English the structure of words spelling.
And many people have remarked that language is a kind of spell casting, a magical thing.
Its origins in our species are deeply profound.
And I know this both from what I guess we might call research.
But also because the entire history of our human relationships with language is hidden
like a jewel in each of us, and very few of us will have the opportunity to play with
this jewel and to understand its otherworldly peculiarities.
There's an old maxim.
And I'm both interested in and distrustful of maxims, much as I am of language itself.
The old maxim I was thinking of was those who are unaware of history are doomed to repeat
it.
And that doom word is pretty strong.
It's a frightening word.
But there's a similar issue with language.
Those who are unaware of the history and nature of language.
Their minds will tend to collapse into forms that are either not particularly useful or
actually toxic.
And we can see all kinds of this in our modern cultures, particularly in electronic media
in general.
There are standout exceptions.
But also in advertising and branding, in political discourse, in the discourse of fundamentalist
religions.
It's an interesting word there, discourse.
You can see the implication of getting lost right there, discourse.
It's not end course or on course, it's discourse, losing our way.
For all of the animals that can move, routes are fundamentally important.
It's a fascinating thing to study the routes of living beings.
And even our own routes in our lives, day to day.
Where do we go?
How do we go there?
If we go to a certain place often, or if we go there every day, we probably have a route
that we prefer.
And there's a kind of intimacy in routes, because the routes are almost like a part
of ourselves, or an aspect of our interiority.
They become so familiar, that in a way, they're like a part of ourselves, or part of our
being.
Routes are very intimate.
If one observes animals, one will discover that they have something that resembles routes
and schedules, but is more fluid than what we kind of over-structured humans generally
do, or follow, traverse.
But when one becomes intimate with an animal, it is immediately apparent that they have routes,
and they relate with the routes within a temporal manifold.
And by more fluid, I mean fuzzier.
They don't go to the office at 9 a.m. every day.
In fact, they don't go to the office at all.
It's another interesting word.
Of course, I've been deeply fascinated by language my entire life.
Some might say, you know, I had a gift for it.
I learned to read very young, and in my youth, I read voraciously.
Most of what I read was science fiction, but also I read in naturalism, science, and technology.
Because when I was little, when I was young, we lived in a myth that is still propagating
and being expressed, that technology would save us from ourselves.
It's not entirely clear to me whether tool use preceded language in our species.
However, it's very clear to me that when our species develops technologies,
we may gain something like convenience.
And we gain the ability to make objects and to use these objects largely against nature.
And some will say, oh, well nature is everything that is.
There's nothing unnatural about humans or their technologies.
And this is the danger of language, because it's not true.
And I mean both things. Language is not true.
And it's not true in very important ways that humans are merely animals doing natural things.
There's no natural animal that rips down the entire Amazon rainforest
or fills the ocean and every creature on earth with microplastics and glycophate and antibiotics.
So if it's our intention to use language intelligently,
it's very important that our minds occupy a position above language, beyond language.
Rather than having our thoughts and ideas, perspectives and opinions collapse into language.
The question about nature troubled me for many years.
It began, I think, in my childhood.
But not until my 20s did it really become, start to become expressed in my consciousness.
And I remember a specific discussion with my best friend, then Gary,
and my roommate, who was an older biologist, molecular chemist.
We had a long discussion about this one night.
And it was very difficult to articulate what I felt very urgently
that the behavior of humans is not entirely natural.
Now, of course, if we decide to use the term nature in the way that one who objects to this might,
then, of course, the question disappears.
It just seems true that since nature is everything, humans can't do anything that's not natural.
But if we admit the distinction between what I'll refer to here as the organic and the artificial,
then we see a very different picture.
And I think this distinction has great merit and is important to preserve.
And people will say similar things. Some people will say similar things about what we might refer to as the supernatural.
Everything is nature, so there's nothing beyond nature.
Well, again, already here you see the problem of categories and treating categories as entirely conclusive,
which is one of the great dangers that language brings with whatever gifts it may embody.
But what I was about to say earlier, before I wandered off on other trails on my route,
is that when we develop technologies, most often we lose faculties.
Faculties that were previously necessary for our survival and well-being become antiquated, in a sense, or deprecated.
And this happened to each of us in childhood as we acquired language.
Language displaced other faculties that would surely have otherwise developed an effloresc in us.
Well, what kind of faculties might I be thinking of?
Hmm.
Very many of them. Not one or two.
I remember a story, and I don't know where it comes from.
A father who was teaching his daughter something very important.
She had acquired language, and clearly he was concerned in some way that as that proceeded, as that process developed,
she might lose something very precious.
And I think he's really on to something important there.
In the story, his daughter was very fond of a specific kind of candy.
And so, he would not let her have any of this candy, with one exception.
He would hold in his mind a word.
And if she could tell him the word that was in his mind, then she could have the candy.
And according to the story, over time, she became quite adept at it.
Of course, at first, she failed all the time.
But over time, she learned to sense something, a transport that could connect her directly to her father's mind.
Now, of course, this transport is always present in every human, however uniquely it may be embodied in them.
Surely, you've been talking with someone at some point, and you know what they will say next.
Now, that has partly to do with the understanding of routes in consciousness.
When we are talking together, we are actually doing something that resembles traversing a physical route.
And this is part of why memory arts, like the memory palace, or the memory route, are extremely powerful.
Before the advent of cars, routes and memory, places, living places and memory, were deeply intertwined.
Cars allowed us to skip over that, partially.
So over time, his daughter learned first to recognize the transport, and then to bring it to life.
Is this supernatural? No. It's super-rational.
Our common rationality, and again, each of us is unique, and we have our own ways of being human and in our minds and so on.
But the overarching rational imperative, you know, would say something like,
Well, science finds no evidence of telepathy. Research has found no evidence of this, which is not true.
There are courageous men and women who have pursued statistical analysis that demonstrates strong correlations.
But because in general, science wants to produce machines and methods,
there are many features of our humanity that not only have eluded science,
our understandings and beliefs in the authority of science
occlude much of what it means to be human, or an organism, or a living world.
I suspect very strongly that in dolphin pods and gorilla pods and flocks of birds and schools of fish,
these creatures are more familiar with mind-sharing than they are with whatever they may do that resembles language.
It's not clear to me that there are other formally representational cognitives on Earth with us,
at least not embodied formally representational cognitives.
And that implies that there might be disembodied beings, beings who are not physical,
or who participate in the physical without being completely represented within it.
And this seems to me very likely.
And there's also the idea of what's called an egregor, E-G-R-E-G-O-R-E.
I suspect this idea was formulated by a South American man who's a mystic whose name escapes me at the moment.
An egregor is a kind of a group intelligence that transforms the human participants that produce it together.
It's a very powerful idea.
It's an aspect of intelligence that exists or comes into existence collectively.
And I have a similar kind of idea that I refer to as thrips in this toy-like perspective that I like to play with.
Though I'll admit some degree of belief in it, all of the minds on Earth form an accessible network that leads not only beyond Earth,
it leads beyond time.
But around here, the humans form what I'll call cognizia.
And these are clades within the human cognizium, which is the entire network of all human minds.
And certainly we can see that our cognizia as humans include minds no longer alive in our traditions, in our language, in books and records and artifacts.
Another fascinating man who was surely partly insane, but also an incredible prodigy, Alfred Korzybski, who wrote science and sanity among other books.
He was deeply aware of problems with language and thinking and categories.
And also, particularly with the seeming completeness that arises when we think in clumsy ways with language.
So, I think there is a network of minds, and we were born to fly in this network.
We have the faculties that would allow us to do so, and to meet, perhaps not face to face, but mind to mind, many other forms of intelligence
that not only exist around us, but also within us.
In the sense that the nature of our being is composed like music, in which myriad intelligences participate.
And the transports in the cognizium I call the mimula, which is a word that for me highlights mymesis, mimetics, emulation, and perhaps even simulation.
And you can see that our internet, what we call the internet, is a derivation of something that existed long before there was technology and still exists today.
Though most of us have become unaware of it, the network of minds in nature, and in the beyond of what we would ordinarily think of as nature.
And the thrips in this toy, they are a bit like egregores.
They are representational thought forms that seem to act like competitive organisms within the human cognizium.
And they compete for dominance over various aspects of the mimula, and they compete for reproductive rights.
And if you simply take a look at what we call the internet today, you can see a swarming, kind of frothy mess of thrisp competition, if you're looking from a perspective like the one I here suggest.
And in this sense, language is strangely like a kind of enchantment, an enchantment that too easily puts us to sleep.
And silence is faculties crucial to our nature as beings and human beings, and to the possibilities of our intelligent communality, but also our intelligent individuality.
I remember one day my son said to me, I'm practicing something new.
And I said, oh, and he said, yes, I'm learning that I don't have to read everything I come across as I walk around in the city in my daily life.
The billboards, the advertisements, the newspaper headlines, and I said, well, what do you mean?
And he said, well, I've always, whenever I saw anything written around me, I read it.
And I thought what a nightmare that would be, even though we're all familiar with this behavior to varying degrees.
I think what my son was saying was that he felt compelled to read every written thing that he saw, perceived.
And I think it was a great relief for him to notice that he doesn't have to do that anymore.
He can leave that stuff alone.
For in truth, most of what he encountered walking around were thrisp gambits.
Here in the city, the buses and trains long ago became billboards.
There are signs everywhere.
What made them?
Well, you can say, you know, humans made them.
And you won't be entirely wrong, but it goes back to the idea of nature, or organic-ness, and artificiality.
And what made most of the signs, even though humans manufactured them, wasn't humans.
If we look very close at the behavior of modern collectives, we can see very clearly that it's as if the collectives are infected with something.
Something that obliterates intelligence and replaces it with representations, tokens, language, artifice.
In an endless library of ways, the vast majority of which are toxic.
And as we proceed into the future, I'm living in the far future of my childhood, these processes become wildly more prevalent, domineering, invasive, and toxic.
As if the thrisps are finding, the thrisps are developing us as a technology.
They're making of us things.
I think our common models of psychism and telepathy are badly broken because they are backwards.
They suppose that such things are extremely exotic, if they exist at all, rare, and or fraught with metaphysical peril.
But it would be very difficult to find something more fraught with metaphysical peril than language, particularly in our time.
And I think it's unwise to presume that it has always been this way.
The minds of our distant ancestors, even our not very distant ancestors, were surely radically different from the minds that we compose in the mind-like states that are foisted upon us in our modern circumstance.
And this is a source of great wonder to me.
What were the minds of our distant ancestors like?
