And I saw it, I mean.
I haven't seen it.
Are you here to look at birds?
Well, I don't want to record our conversation and I'm recording, so let me pause here.
You should come back and take a tour with me when the tour starts.
Absolutely.
The Ramayush were the native people of San Francisco and they used hunting bird sages over...
There's many types of California sages, at least 50 I can think of on the top of my head.
But they used this one in particular for medicinal reasons.
The stickiness, the sap, if you will, they used it for skim condition.
Yep.
Particularly something called urticaria, which is a medical term we use.
It's basically a red raised rash.
Yep.
I've worked with a neuroscientist and I have for probably 20 years.
Well, yeah.
Okay, so my specialty is brain tumors.
Oh, no kidding.
Oh my goodness.
Who do you work with?
His name is Dr. Kevin Baroo.
We have a scientific editing company.
Oh, very cool.
And we edit stuff mostly out of Asia.
Okay, so is he on faculty at UC?
No, no.
Actually, his daughter is in charge of the process of converting all of the records at UCSF
to electronic records.
Yes, that's a long talk.
She's leading that process, as I understand it.
Okay, so he's a PhD in neuroscience.
Yeah.
And molecular biology.
Oh, wonderful.
Okay.
And so what part of it are you involved in the digitalization too?
No, no.
I work with him strictly in the editing capacity.
Oh, got it.
Well, you might be interested to know that I'm leaving my position here as an assistant
professor and I'm becoming a science writer.
Oh, brilliant.
Yeah.
And so I've been submitting pieces.
We should talk.
He and I are both writers.
That's it.
I'm like addicted to writing and have been most of my life.
So part of it is one of the reasons they became a docent.
And this past year, I've kind of had a rewilding experience myself.
I'm also a recent cancer survivor.
Oh, wow.
And so it's like as I've been trying to put my body back to normal or back to some kind
of homeostasis, I've also kind of had a very deeply meaningful connection to the bar.
Me too.
Yeah, it's an incredible place.
And so I've started nature journaling.
Brilliant.
Yes.
And then also I've been learning about some of the plants.
And so it's got really me really writing crazy.
Oh, that's wonderful.
Like I love publications like Orion.
Uh-huh.
You know, that's kind of great.
So that's like my dream to want to get published in that.
But you know, it's just it's like a second career now.
Oh, that's brilliant.
You know, it's so funny.
This is so first of all, I'm a sage nut.
Are you?
Oh, good.
I'm just I'm mad about sage.
Sage nut.
And when I discovered this, I just I was like excited.
I was like ecstatic.
Yeah.
Right.
I'm like, I've never smelled anything this beautiful.
And I noticed that if I had a little rash or something like that, I could rub the oil
on this, you know, on the on the rash and it would often help.
You want to hear a secret?
I burned myself two weeks ago and I was putting one of these near my apartment.
I don't have a garden.
I live in a small apartment, but I like would touch the flowers and then put some on and
it's definitely helpful.
Yes.
Fascinating.
Yeah, I love all of the sale.
The stages have different oils.
Yeah.
And many of them are edible.
That I didn't know.
Yes.
Well, sage.
Help me.
Sage related to culinary.
Yes.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, of course.
So that's originally for the Mediterranean.
But we have our own health.
So may I give you my card?
My name is Darren.
Oh, hi, Darren.
Oh, you have a great name.
Thank you.
Are you Italian?
I am.
Brilliant.
Hi, Zon.
Nice to meet you.
What is your name?
Alisa.
Hi, Alisa.
Alisa, tell them how we met.
What do you mean, here at the park?
Yeah, tell them our meet cute story.
Okay.
So we were closer to the entrance and there's a Pacific Wren who has kind of taken residence
in a row of bamboo and we were both just mesmerized because his song is so...
He's like a canary.
He just belches that.
And he goes on and on.
And yeah, we were both just standing there.
Well, and I said, do you know who the bird this is?
And I knew she was going to be a friend of mine because I've become a lot more intentional
about observation as a means to get some depth in the connection to the world around me.
Me too.
And it's funny because I've been a scientist for over 20 years and studying science.
And you forget how to actually observe things and actually pay attention because you're
constantly doing like a million things at a time, right?
And the same with medicine.
We don't have time for patients to really sit and observe them.
Right.
Which is so much of what we need to do to figure something out.
We agree.
So I saw her and she was like patiently waiting and she had binoculars and I was like, okay,
this girl knows about birds.
And so I just started talking to her.
That was amazingly a month ago.
So every week, except for last week, for the last month, we met and we explored different
parts of the garden.
She's like, we're on the same wavelength in terms of our interest.
So there was an example of beautiful first moves.
I met two women, Elisa and Manisha.
And Manisha is an oncologist, a radiation oncologist and has trained with neurosurgeons.
And Elisa is a bird person, sometimes called a twitcher.
And so we walked around and oh my God, I haven't had an experience like this in a long, long
time.
It was so effusively exciting.
And Manisha is staggeringly intelligent and Elisa is much more soft-spoken.
And we looked at birds and we talked about the fact that an Oriole's been sighted here
in place in the garden where I come.
And we just had the most amazing little walk, which you may have heard traces of before
I decided that it just, it wasn't reasonable to try to record it all, because I don't
think the mic would have picked it up.
But there was an example of just how our orientation when we meet others can absolutely transform
everything.
I come here all the time and I've never had an encounter like this.
Though I have encountered other very insightful or intelligent people, Manisha's intelligence
is like a force of nature.
I don't remember someone that incredibly diversely educated and profoundly loquacious,
which means to talk a lot.
I mean I thought I talked a lot.
I'm rather timid compared to her.
So I'm not sure where I broke off in my wandering talk.
I know I was talking about first moves and unity and how maybe we have things backwards
in terms of minds, in the sense that we think of people as having individual minds.
But if you look very carefully at the character, oh we also saw Coyote which I'm hearing right now.
Let's see if you can hear it.
You see when the sirens go then the Coyotes howl.
So I think we have this backwards and if we look at the characteristics of individual minds
we will find that vast portions of common people's minds are comprised of collective representations.
Representations of what things are, what they're for, what they do, what they're called
that are inherited from the collectives and this is no accident.
This is evidence of the network I was speaking of that I call the Cognition.
So I suspect that if either we didn't learn language so early, which may be important
because it seems that there are, well it's a long topic, but humans have many life phases
different phases of our lives incline us to be able to adopt specific skills.
And it appears that language learning, it's not impossible to learn to acquire language beyond childhood
but it seems very uncommon.
And so what I'm trying to say is that our life experience as children inhibits many senses that would otherwise develop
and it shunts developmental resources into representational thought to such a severe degree
that many of the, one moment, the sirens going by, many of the faculties that would otherwise develop
are severely inhibited or lost.
Now it doesn't mean they can't be developed, but one would have to wonder the same thing about them that we wonder about language
in which life phase are they most easily acquired and is there a limit?
In other words, there may be faculties that we have to activate when we're very young or we will lose them.
However, I suspect that the faculties that would be involved in mind sharing stay with us throughout our lives
and are always accessible.
It may just be that because language is fundamentally representational
we have to acquire it in specific phases of childhood, otherwise we perhaps lose the ability to acquire it
or that ability is severely limited.
Many of us I think have had experiences, as I said, of mind sharing and something which I'm hesitant to call telepathy,
I want a better word, which is I guess why I'm calling it something else.
But these experiences are most common in situations of deep intimacy with family members,
loved ones, animals, perhaps plants.
And intimacy is a fundamental component.
Now it may be possible for us to be generally intimate, but the context we normally find ourselves in
