are intrinsically conflicted.
It's a little hard to pick up where I left off, but I'm working at it.
I hope you'll bear with me.
So I spoke about how the categories inherit the errors of the supercategories,
or what I would call the Unifor.
The Unifor is what everything is, what we think of everything as being.
And I was speaking about the necessity of incompleteness and including it in our ideas, our thought, our theories, our models,
because although human intelligence appears advanced in certain domains, it's incredibly primitive in others.
And we should recognize that so that we can learn to see into the aspects of our potential to which we've been blinded by technique
and language is part of that technique.
In fact, one might say, well, earlier in the conversation I was wondering,
I strongly suspect tool use came before language.
Language was more of a, probably an adaptation to larger social groups, right?
And maybe even distributed social groups, right?
Social groups distributed over a broad area.
But language is one of the first technologies, and it's an incredibly dangerous one.
It's just too easy to think that once we know the name of something, we can now dismiss it.
We don't have to pay attention anymore.
My goodness.
Meeting those two women was like meeting a thunderstorm.
I mean, particularly Manisha.
That woman is just like a storming, thunder cloud of incredible curiosity and wonder and intelligence.
And I'm still sort of overwhelmed.
But it was made possible because we all made first good moves together.
There was trust and fascination and interest.
And I opened the conversation with, have you seen any beautiful birds?
That was my first move, I think, if I remember correctly.
And of course there's a recording, so we'll find out.
But you know, we could easily have decided that either of us, any of us, right,
could have decided, oh, this is dangerous.
Oh, it's the pandemic.
Oh, who's this man wandering around in the garden?
You know, is he a safe person to relate with?
Just as children would, right?
But we beautifully negotiated that and then had just a wonderful time together for which I'm deeply grateful.
It's incredibly refreshing for me to meet other adults who are fascinated by living beings and the possibilities of intelligence.
And Manisha is, I mean, it was such a peculiar, it was almost like magic happened because those two women together
are different than either one of them alone.
And us three together, we formed a unique little mini-society for a time.
And it's very uncommon that I meet adults that are so broadly curious and fascinated.
And Manisha is a scientist who's also, you know, a doctor who's also deeply fascinated by living things and not merely the clinical intelligence is there, right?
There's something deeper that she's reaching for and reaching back into in her life.
And it's just beautiful.
So it's getting dark now and I've wandered far afield in the conversation.
But that's okay.
Not all of our wanderings come to nice, neat conclusions.
But I want to encourage anyone who's listening to both pay attention, to sift the forms of intelligence that are common and find their jewels and leave the dross aside.
And to look deeper into the nature of our awareness in our minds for the origins of the problems and opportunities that our peculiar kind of animal embodies and faces, particularly in our modern situation.
And, you know, each of us has transited a number of life phases.
And we've also transited a number of phases of the development of civilization in our lifetimes.
And everything has sped up very dramatically over the past 50 years or less.
You know, it's sped up even faster in the past 10.
And so in a sense, we've seen more development in some domains while at the same time experiencing the loss of faculties and relationships and opportunities that were previously natural to us when the pace of life was much slower as it was in my childhood.
The frenetic pace of the mechanized world is a terrifying thing for any animal.
And the aspects of our interiority that are sensitive and vulnerable, they have to shield themselves from that to survive.
So to recover them, we must be passionately curious and also have space, right?
Away from machines, away from the frenetic pace of civilization, away from news, away from media.
We need quiet, contemplative space together to explore and rediscover the many faculties and assets of our humanity that have been either hidden, threatened, or driven into representations, transactions, and tokens.
And it's my hope that we can all do this work together and continue to learn and grow and recover some of the most precious assets that our human incarnation embodies.
The moon is approaching fullness, perhaps four or five more days.
There are many new birds in the garden, and I was lucky enough today to have an astonishing adventure with other humans here, which these days I must admit is relatively rare.
Thank you for joining me. I look forward to learning together again very soon. Bye-bye for now.
