And some would say, well, to understand that, you have to study the artifacts.
And again, it's not entirely untrue, but I think it's far more profound to seek within ourselves, deep within us, the still living heartbeat of those minds.
To contact them directly within ourselves and together.
And this is an imperative that fascinates me and I think is something we should be very careful to preserve our concern with, our awareness of, our fascination with.
We're capable of a kind of inward archaeology that science cannot encompass and will very likely never discover.
Though again, there are courageous, creative minds who are exceptional, willing to chase things, even with the spirit of science that don't properly belong to the central agendas of that way of knowing.
Long ago, I discovered both with some non-human help and also by intense curiosity something about the nature of relation.
And it's not a simple thing to express unless I use analogies.
I'm fond of analogies when they're useful.
But first, I'll just say something simple about it, which is that first moves matter a lot.
The first moments of an interaction or an encounter are extremely likely to set up specific routes along which that relationship or exchange will develop.
And even though I'm aware of this, it's difficult to remain aware of.
Aware of it to a degree that grants me access to the deep opportunities of this understanding.
But I am aware of this principle.
If I meet another human being on my walk, everything about the first moments of our interactions has at least a partially deterministic function in how things may proceed or not.
If the music of my voice and greeting them is welcoming and joyful, that will very likely potentiate a not dissimilar response in them.
If it is angry or dismissive, and of course it's not merely my words, it's my body.
We have this rather confused term body language.
But body language isn't really a language. It's something far older than language, primordial.
It will be different if I approach someone with the left side of my body slightly forward, or my head tilted slightly upward, and if my head is more or less vertical,
or if I approach them with the right side of my body. And it will be different if I approach them from their right or their left.
And it will be different if I approach them face on, or somewhat indirectly.
All of these things, the animal of us, is deeply sensitive to.
Now similarly, in thought, first moves matter. And this is part of the great dangers of language, but also part of the profound opportunities.
Even though language is extremely dangerous and formal representational thought in our lives, is often mostly a disease.
What we can learn, and I hope we will together, one of my great dreams, is that we will learn together about the dangers of language and thereby understand the actual opportunities.
There's a strange kind of thrisp, a sort of species of thrisp, that's interested in this.
It's not interested in dominating the network, or wild reproduction. Rather, it's interested in attaching itself to the domineering species of thrisps in the network,
that clog and operationalize it for their own benefit. And then, in a kind of magic disappearing act, this sort of thrisp can sacrifice itself and take down lies.
By attaching itself to the domineering thrisps in such a way that their continued propagation and dominance have been captured at the root by this other kind of thrisp.
A kind of messianic thrisp, in a way, because it's not concerned with its own dominance or propagation, rather it's concerned with healing the network of minds,
returning the lost faculties to the participants in the cognizia. And it will sacrifice itself to do so.
I suppose I may be able to give an example, one I'm fond of and have given before.
There's an old paradox, and I believe that the paradoxes weren't meant merely to stymie us and puzzle us, but rather as questing paths.
If we pursue them deeply enough, eventually we discover the root of the paradox was a misunderstanding about the primacy of language.
And one of the good old paradoxes, which I think is sometimes referred to as Russell's paradox after Bertrand Russell, but surely he is not the first to formulate this, is the paradox of this statement is false.
Now of course, there's a different version of this, which is this statement is true, and that first move there, this statement is true.
It's easier to understand the problem if we start there, because a statement with no content isn't true.
There's no content in the statement, this statement is true. But if we take the paradox of this statement is false, then we have the problem.
If we've made a bad first move, that if the statement is perceived as valid, it is self-contradictory.
And this is an old paradox, and one I've wrestled with for many years before I finally, I think, saw through it.
And again, in the case of this statement is false, there's no content.
It's not saying anything really, it's just some words strung together in a way that illustrates the deeply troubling propensities of language to enact a kind of collapse in consciousness, where it may appear that language tells us what it means.
That's not possible, because language by itself without minds, encompassing it, doesn't tell anyone anything. In fact, it's meaningless.
So this statement is false can be answered with another statement. And this is an example of the strange kind of thrisp that destroys itself while taking down some other mess.
And the statement is, no statement shall, through self-reference or other means, promote itself to the order of the minds with which it must be interpreted.
And this imposes two orders, minds and statements. Minds have precedence, not statements.
Now in a strange way, that idea that no statement shall, etc., etc., that can all be collapsed down to something much simpler. Words aren't minds.
So words don't tell us what's true or false. But the problem with the paradox is that the words promote, there's the tendency for us to promote the words to a position above the minds with which they're interpreted.
And that's a different order of meaning. That's not the same order of meaning as language. So suddenly, we find ourselves in a situation where words are pretending to be the minds that interpret them.
We have all kinds of problems with this kind of thing. A good example is the idea that the Bible is the Word of God.
That the ultimate being caused humans to make a book that was absolutely true in every detail and particular and also absolutely perfect. That is a weaponized, crisp gambit.
And it's schizophrenic in the sense that books like this are intended to dominate minds. Language rising above the order of the minds that interpret it.
You'll even hear certain evangelical groups say things like, there are no private interpretations of the Bible. And what they mean is, apparently, they believe it's possible for language to not only be absolutely true, but explicitly so.
What a strange idea. And this is evidence of damage to the cognizium in our distant ancestors. Damage formed in language and caused primarily by the advancement of formal representational cognition.
And the crises of consciousness that arose long ago that we're still trapped in.
Language would be much better, much more safe if we preserved the sanctity of minds above it and could then use it.
The same way we might use a knife. And this is an important metaphor with great care.
You see, with language, because it's invisible and its processes are largely invisible to us, and its effects on us are largely invisible to us most of the time.
Too often we grab hold of the blade, and our minds are cut, in a sense, sliced, divided, against their own nature and origins, against their own natural proclivities.
And we see this most significantly in schizophrenia. What we refer to as schizophrenia, which often is a problem where symbolic cognition overwhelms supervenes over the mind itself.
And becomes a turmoil of competing correlations, seeming synchronicities.
In a sense, one might look at science and religion as two different sides of a similar coin, a coin being a token.
They are differently motivated, but similarly concerned with the idea, not the essence, the idea, the representation of truth.
In a case it isn't clear, the origins of science lie, I think, in religion.
And science can become religious in thought and practice.
And it's also very clear, if you just look at the histories and the outcomes, that for all the promise of science, we don't have cultures capable of using it intelligently.
And so, when the results of scientific endeavor are captured by our collectives, mostly they become toxic very quickly.
And part of why they become toxic is because of what we must evict to produce scientific understanding, what we must ignore, get rid of, not pay attention to.
And this is why, in laboratories, we produce unnatural isolations of phenomenon that, in many cases, if not most, would never be found in nature.
And we cannot account for the effect of our own concerns, choices, perspectives, and interactions when examining phenomenon scientifically.
So we evict both ourselves, and as much of the natural symphony of relationships in the world as we can, to try to get a grasp, and that word's very important.
So, it's a sign that in aspect of awareness, the grasping aspect, the aspect that wants to grasp and manipulate, and this aspect is often very disembodied.
We want to get a grasp, a firm grip on some particular feature of distinction, cuts.
Now, earlier in my wandering, I talked about first moves, and how they're very important.
Nowhere, perhaps, are they more important in consciousness and awareness than in consciousness and awareness.
So that whatever we may think starts with a first move, and that first move usually involves the derivation or the invocation of categories we've accepted
the structured forms of, and often unconsciously accepted, the limitations of without being aware of that.
Our categories begin, generally, with a move that's invisible to us most of the time, and that move is, what is the everything?
Now, one thrisp network will assert that the everything is the creation of a divine being.
Not necessarily the worst move, unless, of course, the divine being wrote a book in language that is supposed to be explicitly true and interprets itself for us.
Much like this statement is true.
There's the collapse.
Another popular first move is the universe is a machine.
Now, that's a very strange move.
Us humans, we have a terrible problem with reifying being and existence in the likeness of our tools.
It's a very dangerous thing to do.
Organisms are not machines any more than humans or cartoons because they're both animated.
Our hearts are not pumps.
Our brains are not computers.
Those things are machines.
They're profoundly less dimensional and uninhabited.
Perhaps uninhabitable, I would say they are uninhabitable.
So, because of the way humans use science, and they don't have, we do not have to use it this way.
It's a habit.
It's an addiction.
Because of the way we use science, you can see a process where our interiority, our nature as beings, is sacrificed to the forms and structured methods employed in an attempt to produce a specific form of knowledge
that we consider and call, we consider it to be and we call it objective.
Yet, very importantly, there is no such thing as an objective perceiver and there never will be.
Objectivity is sort of standing ghost of the absence of being, perspective, the unique nature of being alive.
And it's really formed in a mathematical sense, statistically.
We take some cohort, we analyze it, throw the dimensions that we have no grasp on away, and are left with a kind of skeletal derivation
that we then assert as truth.
And part of that truth involves the capacity to reproduce the results of an experiment or method in similarly...
Well, in the laboratory, but I mean by the laboratory is a place where most of everything can be evicted so that we can seem to study a very particular phenomenon.
For example, the double slit experiment with light.
Now, there's all kinds of fascinating routes around these two topics, science and religion, and it's not really my intent to explore them here today.
Rather though, I'd like to point out that our categories begin with something we're often unaware of and that we tend to sort of tacitly accept.
For example, that the universe was created by a divine being, apparently intentionally, and weirdly, very weirdly, in many religions, this is a legal framework.
Apparently, this divine being is very concerned about laws.
And similarly, in science, and I find this shockingly bizarre, we may be told that there are laws of physics, but physics is not a courtroom.
And yet, science depends on a courtroom-like antagonism among researchers so that, unlike common thought, when scientists produce a theory, generally speaking, and there are exceptions,
their first move is to find the most skillful people they can to attack that theory.
They try to do everything they can to tear it apart and discover its flaws.
And that's a very useful method.
It's very powerful. You can see its power in all of our technologies, but you can also see that it has not enabled us to act intelligently with the results of this behavior.
In fact, our collectives act omnisidally. They're killing everything, all day long, including us.
And some will say, well, there's exceptions, and sure, there are exceptions, but they're relatively trivial compared to the ongoing apocalypse nightmare that our collectives are furiously pursuing
the ongoing development of.
So if you had a better idea about what the universe is, an idea that was simply slightly less wrong,
and it might not need to evict science, and it might not need to evict the idea that a unified intelligence is involved in the nature of time-space and matter beings,
but it could reframe both of these in fascinating and beautiful ways that would return to us some of the necessary liberties that our potential for intelligence depends intimately upon.
Because before the categories, there's a very peculiar thing, a formation in consciousness, a representation.
Ah, the universe is a this. And then, from there, the categories inherit their import, the result of that first move.
So if the first move is broken, the categories all inherit the damage.
And earlier, I was talking about psychism and telepathy, and I said, I think we've got this backwards.
And what I meant was, we made the wrong first move. What was the wrong first move?
Or we made a clumsy first move. That's a better way of saying it. A dangerously clumsy first move.
And that first move was to believe that there's such a thing as an individual.
Now, provisionally, it's not a problem to assert individuality.
To assert it categorically or explicitly, that is a serious fucking problem.
So when I say I think we have these things backwards, what I mean is something very simple, that both science and religion have some reflection of embedded in their structure.
And this principle is very simple to state, but very difficult to understand because almost all of our traditions of representational cognition start out in modernity, very bad first moves, very dangerous first moves.
The principle is simple to state, unity has precedence over individuality.
All things and beings and processes are one first, and that union has precedence over distinction.
And you hear things in physics around this idea that we want a unified theory.
But the strange thing about physics is that although it can help us to understand how to manipulate components of what we might call reality,
although I'm not a huge fan of that word, I'd like a better one. I don't have one near at hand. Existence, maybe.
When we hear the talk about unifying physics, what is usually or often meant is that we have a problem in that we don't really, our current scientific understanding in the collectives, there may already be exceptions in specific minds.
And I was going to say individuals.
We have a problem in that we can't really unify classical physics and quantum physics.
And I think quantum physics is so bizarre and unusual that we really don't understand what it's about yet.
There's something beyond it, something that encompasses it or that encompasses both classical and quantum physics.
It also seems very strange that things that are impossible in classical physics, for example, to reverse a timeline, are relatively common in quantum physics at the Planck scale.
There's another problem with representational thought, though I'm going to come back to unity in a moment, in that it's very easy to think of human knowledge as advanced and to see our technologies as proof of that advancement.
But an actually advanced technology would not wipe out life on Earth and its originators.
It would not degrade their minds and bodies to such an extent that we would have to live like ghosts of ourselves in a vast war zone of thrips and competing assertions, ideas, models, theories, advertisements, brands, products.
And that's a pretty miserable existence for a creature that was born to fly in the cognizia of time space, and we are such a creature.
The precedence of unity is a useful first move, and when I said that psychism and telepathy have the story backwards, what I meant was that all minds are always touching.
And the man who was teaching his daughter to touch his mind with hers understood this and was unwilling to allow that tragedy to proceed.
In his lineage.
Representational thought, the thought type we use, the type of thinking we use to declare the primacy of individuals, is the result of a distortion in our categories and understandings about unity.
Most of us have had some experience of touching another mind, or being touched by the mind of another.
At the moment when my grandmother passed away, I had a vision. I was in bed, sleeping, and one could say, oh well, you were just dreaming.
That just word is one of the most dangerous words in English.
It's used to collapse vast manifolds of incredible dimensionality and profound nature into a single word with which we can dismiss them.
And the urge to dismiss such things is evidence of the imperatives associated with the aspects of thought very interested in grasping and disembodied manipulation.
Toolmaking.
Cutting.
You see, when we say the universe is blah blah blah, we are making a cut in the manifold of identity.
And if we're going to make a cut there at the first place, if we intend to make a cut there, we should realize we will be thus divided.
It is always possible to start at the beginning again and make a better first move than we made last time.
In every aspect of our thought, our life, our relationships, we can learn to follow a route and detect a direction that is less wrong than what we did last time.
And if this were not so, we would never learn to walk, and we would certainly not be able to acquire language.
And you can see that these things deeply involve routes, but they're not the kind of route we ordinarily think of.
Instead of the route that I'm traveling on foot, which is related, it is the route we travel in thought.
Where do we begin? What is the first cut we make? What are the repercussions of that cut?
Do we find them to be liberating or entrapping?
To me, it seems likely that the universe is the expression of something beyond all thought, far beyond all thought.
In other words, the universe of matter and time space is an expression of something beyond it.
Not dissimilar to a reflection in a very peculiar kind of pool where the reflections take on physical forms and have minds and so on.
And some people might think, oh, he means the universe is a simulation. No, I don't mean that.
In fact, that's evidence of a peculiar kind of that same kind of damage where we reify existence in the image of our own tool creations.
And I've never heard anyone who suggests that the universe is a simulation say anything intelligent about, well, if it's a simulation,
what is it a simulation of? Because there's no such thing as a simulation. All simulations are simulations of something, right?
I promise you, the universe is not a simulation.
And one of the most powerful moves we can make if we don't know what to do and we don't know where to go is we can say what something isn't.
The universe is not a machine. Organisms are not machines.
The universe is not merely the creation of a God, an uncreated God, a God that simply always is.
We can resist collapsing the manifold of possibilities into something we can grasp or transmit in language.
And that's a very powerful first move, but it's the opposite of saying what the universe is.
We can simply resist the collapse.
And another feature that can improve our capacity to make a better move is to understand the necessity of incompleteness as it relates to representations.
Representations are staggeringly incomplete by nature, which means most of what's going on isn't in them and never will be.
And here I could just mention briefly Einstein's brilliant friend Goedl and his incompleteness theorems with which he destroyed the agenda of the logical positivists in, I think, the 1930s with math.
He used math to show them that mathematics was incomplete and must be in order for it to function properly.
Their hope was that they could find a method that would allow them infinite grasp on truth so that it would be possible to compute the truth of anything explicitly.
That failed, thankfully.
If you're really terrifying, the universe is pretty scary around here anyway.
Goedl didn't save us, but his intuitions were absolutely brilliant and his techniques were also absolutely brilliant.
Profoundly, amazingly prodigious.
Hi.
How are you?
I'm well, how are you?
Good.
Have you seen any beautiful birds?
We have.
She's kind of like a bird.
Ah, that's...
I noticed there's an oriole coming through this season.
