There's no one at the wheel of the car.
There's nothing there.
It's just the collapse, the ever collapsing, more and more artifacted, more tokenized result of absolutely departing from nature, intelligence, relation, life on Earth.
My friend, Ryan, and I often talk a bit about whether animals are representational or not.
And he's a little bit more on the side that they are.
And I agree that there are degrees of representational ability and behavior in various animals, for sure, not even maybe.
But I don't think they're formally representational the way we are.
They don't disappear into outer space in a world of tokens and categories and a wildly incomplete world of tokens and categories, right?
Missing the most important categories completely.
They're not even in the tree, right?
Because the root element was compromised, what the sky is, that's the root element.
Compromise that, all the categories inherit in the representational layer.
They all inherit this problem and they ramify it and exaggerate it and all kinds of crazy things.
Of course, only in human minds.
In the 70s, there were a lot of films about space travel and most of them depicted spacecraft that were like laboratory environments and or medical theater, surgery theaters.
Zero life in space ship.
It's a very strange idea. No intelligent species would think that way.
But of course, really intelligent species wouldn't even be thinking about space ships.
There's much better ways to do those things than physical technologies.
And most of the creatures that develop physical technologies, well, let's just say it doesn't go well for them.
Relational technologies.
Those... See, that's the polarity to...
It's not really a problem.
Actually, it's not what I want to say.
There are many different modes of representational cognition and there's ways that animals like us could employ it that are beautiful and mostly work pretty well and are trustworthy.
We're not using those. Those are off the table.
And part of the reason is that we're not choosing.
Our species isn't choosing this.
So if we blame our species, there's a problem there because they're certainly not choosing it.
They're born into a pre-compromised context in which they will be socialized in language and cultureated in the anciently evolved mess that we inherit when we're born in the modern world.
So a lot of... Almost all of that is... Almost all the representational stuff you do.
Most of it anyway is inherited.
There's something I want to highlight though.
If we make a sphere and we divide it into three segments, right? Core, second layer, third layer.
And at the surface of the third layer we put representational cognition, which humans do.
There's all kinds of stuff underneath that that's semi-representational.
And then it becomes very blurry and it's not representational in the second layer.
But at its origin, which I placed at the middle of the sphere here,
it is truly and staggeringly transcendental.
It has nothing to do with words or ideas or concepts or language or models or math or physics or biology.
And yet all of these things that it has nothing to do with emerge from it.
And so too the problem of our representational catastrophe.
The rolling catastrophe that we're experiencing and probably mostly extremely confused by.
You see our hearts and souls can't live in that layer.
They, it's a desert of a very deadly kind.
They can't live in those representations of the nation and society and the bank and the rent and the car and the dog.
House payment and the insurance and the cable, the internet, smart phones.
There's no place for life there.
That's almost, that's the outer space.
It's the lifeless laboratory that is the ideal of the strange persona within the collective of our species
that keeps chasing.
This is the really weird thing, emancipation from nature.
It wants sovereignty over nature, this persona in our species.
And it believes that sovereignty means evacuation, no nature here.
We got this, we can do all this with machines, we don't need nature.
It's hilarious because at the very least nature is the origin and moment to moment necessary fuel for the possibility of a mind at all.
And so all of the possibilities of minds emerge from nature.
You want to evict that? Good luck having a mind.
You think you're intelligent when you're not surrounded by billions of forms of life doing trillions of things per second?
That outer space is lethal and the farther we travel into it, the more desperate the devastation it produces in our hearts
and intelligences and creativity and all of these things.
There's a carrying cost for the representational layer and it gets more expensive per second.
No animal could survive it.
An animal, if it has to stop and think about things, it must have a great degree of luxury at that moment.
In the world of animals and insects, one instant of slight indecision in your food, you'll be killed.
And that means that you could understand the animals and insects as a strange experiment where facing tens of threats per second throughout their lives
and dying and reproducing and so on and evolving and passing on their genes and all of this.
They became a symphony of living embodied physical intelligences.
They don't think their bodies are made of the intelligence of billions and billions of life years of their ancestors.
Not a few, not a hundred, not a million, not a few million.
Hundreds of billions of life years of ancestors.
Selecting the survivors of moment to moment encounters with threats and danger and predators and injury and sickness and so on.
So what you have when you're looking at a house fly is an example of one of the most highly evolved physical intelligences on earth.
That thing is old in ways that make octopuses look young.
I'll have more to say about this in a minute.
Let's say, just for the sake of argument, I have no idea what the number is.
But let's say that there are, if we include all the different kinds of flies, I don't know, 500 billion flies per year.
So, you know, let's say flies are 2.7, let's see, the earth's 4.3, life's about 3.
Let's say they're 1.7 billion years old. I think this is a very conservative estimate.
So that would mean that there have lived on earth 1.7 billion times 500 billion flies in a relatively coherent and mostly consistent environment.
When you get to run that many experiments, you get some unimaginably highly adapted physical intelligences.
Why does the sky produce those?
Why does the sky produce those as its children here?
If you look from the representational side or from what we might think of as the disembodied, disconnected left hemispheric-like aspect of consciousness,
flies have no utility, therefore they have no value, therefore they are just objects to be disposed of at will.
So in the representational layer, the relationship with identity is missing.
What has been substituted for it is a series of categorical declarations.
Insect, not useful, probably harmful, destroy, just as if a machine were running a program.
In dreaming, in the other mode of consciousness, and of course there are many modes, not two,
even objects acquire qualities, dimensions of character and meaningful identity that are never formalized but they are experienced.
We don't have a language to formalize the experiences of dreaming.
And when we use waking language it fails, but we can tell the plot and the scenes and we can tell our feelings and senses and memories,
perhaps if we're lucky.
We need both faculties and they must be in harmony for our awareness to become something like its nature, its purposive origin.
When I think of the tree, I might think three ways at the same time, like the three positions in the sphere,
that the core, transcendental, unknowable, impossible to the waking mind's ideas, impossible to those ideas.
The waking mind would never allow a thing like an actual tree to intrude on its tyrannical grasp of categories and tokens.
Anything that has some ambiguity outside that is a danger to the representational paradigm.
More specifically to what we might think is, we'll call it the right side collapse, meaning the right hand in this case.
Left hand dreaming. All kinds of things in between them and all kinds of different ways for them to relate, endless kinds,
but when the right hand dominates, graspable tokens, concepts and categories are the demand.
There's a vast history behind all this, but the doorways appear when we become aware, we have the insight, not merely the words,
that the transcendental tree is the actual tree.
Then there's the ambiguous phase of the sphere where it could be many different things depending on how and why we're looking at it.
Then we have the representational, the more representational outer layer of the sphere where, no of course that's a tree,
and then the very surface which is really tokenized, just tree, wood comes from it, that's basically it, sometimes fruit.
So you can see that we want to dwell not in the outer layer, we can be aware of the outer layer and we can learn to do this together.
We are learning now. I am learning with you.
We can remember that the outer layer is uninhabitable and almost a pure fiction.
It's a fiction of departure from the actual experience of identity and relation and the meaningful dimensionality that's available to us in this,
that we are reminded of by the astonishing beauty and strange angles of emotional and relational intensity that are natural to dreaming.
A mailbox in a dream is never just a mailbox, ever.
The flower in the dream is not the flower.
It's a flower and five or six other feeling tones and felt senses and things like this.
So one of the consequences of severe formal representational cognition is that all of this is lost, it is evicted to the dreaming life
and thought of to be native to that and that is mostly dismissed because that's a bunch of spooky whatever, who cares what it is, it's not real.
What's real to the representational cognitive is categories.
It's a tree, it's a plant, it's money, it's not, it's a drug, it's a car, it's a house.
Object categories and value categories and other things, vigilance categories for example.
What do I have to watch? What do I like to watch? Who's watching me? How are they watching me?
All of these things.
So the representational layer should be the servant of something vastly wiser and more relationally intelligent,
but instead having been divided from its origin, what we might think of as its natural prodigy, its best place to be, its best role.
Deprived of that it becomes terrified and impotent and paranoid and evacuated, dissociated.
Thousands of stories about this and the ancient religions can enable this simple, near at hand one.
So when I look at the tree, obviously I live in the representational layer too and it's very compelling.
It has incredible gravity. It draws our awareness and attention to it at the expense of everything else.
It's very, very trenchant.
So I'm walking down the street and on paved sidewalk looking at cars and houses and light poles and things.
And I'm in the representational layer, but I am aware that the tree is a beautiful and terrifying mystery beyond all comprehension,
entirely.
And then I'm also aware that the tree is, like all things, entirely transcendental. It's not a tree.
I don't know what that is. It's beyond any possible conception.
In the second layer of the sphere of identity, I imagine beautiful things about the tree.
And I know that some of them are not merely plausible, right?
That the tree is connected to all trees in all of time.
That they form a network of intelligences and their physical intelligences and they are accessible to us as human beings.
Our own cognition has more to do with trees than almost anything else we can. There's no better metaphor.
You can use the cloud metaphor, but the tree metaphor is much more natural.
Our category, our lexicons are trees.
And the thing I think no one's ever properly understood is that those trees have trunks and the trunks have roots.
And those roots are holophores.
And there's a single root, which is the uniphore.
A holophore is a root concept for humans in the representational lexicon that informs all other concepts.
Some root concepts, and there's not a specific catalog of them.
Our friend, dream, food, mother, time, hand, eye, animal, plant.
Whatever you think these are and whatever you think they aren't informs all other concepts.
World is more fundamental. What is the world?
Whatever you think of that, concepts can only inherit the expanse of what you think of that.
How you think about what is the world? Fundamentally, what is its nature? What is its truest or more true?
What is it doing? Who is that? Why is the world? How is the world? All of these things.
So these root concepts over time, they underwent cycles of degradation until they became extremely one-dimensional or two-dimensional.
And I call this process artifacting.
And that's one of the consequences of the particular path in representational cognition our species has thus far taken.
Overall, at the broad scale, there are all kinds of astonishing innovations within the broad scale.
It's not only darkness, but it's mostly darkness.
There's all kinds of little branches in the jungle of human cognition and thought and awareness and practice and so on,
that are very deep and rich and alive and frankly mostly trustworthy.
But the darkness pervades the overall context. Those branches are relatively rare.
And we have to compose them and enact them together for them to exist.
So what about this transcendentalness at the core?
Oh, yes, I should continue on the holophore tree. So underneath the holophores, the root ideas, what is the world?
What is a friend? What is a mother? What is food? What is a dream?
All of these things have an upscale origin.
And that origin is the uniphore. What is everything?
And religion attacks that uniphore and attempts to capture it and tell you what everything is and is for.
And that's the kind of gambit that you'd expect in a formally representational animal like us.
And it works really, really well. It's an exploit.
There may or may not be divine beings, personally. I know there are, or at least I know that.
How would I put this?
If you go from the outskirts of the sphere, pure representation toward the center,
at some place, probably in the third and second layer, you will see there are divine beings.
If you go further toward the center, the idea of beings is gone.
And there's the direct experience of the transcendental or the enactment of it.
At that point, no concepts will help you.
So it depends on where, what layer of the sphere we're in, so to speak, the sphere of representation, whether they're divine beings or not.
And what I promise you it turns out to be is that the question is irrelevant.
As you travel toward origin itself, whatever transcendental explosion of ecstasy and awe and terrifying beauty that is,
there's no concept survive in there. The whole representational layer is gone. You can forget about that shit.
But we live, most of us, near the surface, and occasionally we travel back toward the core of the sphere between being and representation.
And what I would love is if we could all travel together back toward being in ways that we could trust and were authentic and true.
Because this is what we fundamentally hunger for in all the things we seek, we hunger for this.
But we don't know of this, most of us, and it's very difficult to do it by oneself, yet it is happening here for a moment, together.
If we could travel and thus reforge our minds by, like the whale, we can take a breath of representation if we need to and dive down to the deepest waters beyond it.
And then see how it is reflected there and how we reflect upon it from those depths.
And then return if we need to to representations or even the other way around.
We can breathe the oxygen of dreaming and dive down into the representation and shine the light of dreaming in the dead world of tokens and artifacts.
Surely our intelligence will awaken, our awareness will awaken, our creativity will awaken, our power will become whole again.
This is my dream. This is my dream. Thank you for joining me. Bye bye for now.
