Hello, everybody. Welcome.
It's the first night after the new moon.
And I'm taking a walk under the star field
in a strange and lonely city.
But the sky is beautiful.
Truly astonishing.
What is the sky?
Take a moment and ask yourself what you think the sky is.
If where you are, it's dark and you go and look at the sky.
What do you imagine or think it is that you're seeing up there?
But if we're going to be conceptual, we need a few other ingredients.
Not just what is the sky.
But what is it doing?
What is it being?
Who is the sky?
Where is the sky?
Why is the sky?
How is the sky?
What is the sky?
We have these seven question words in English and these words are the origin of actual quests.
Not merely question and answer, but quests.
The quest to understand, for example, what is the sky?
And this particular question
has a crucial importance in the structure of human cognition.
A very special importance.
It's one of the root elements that all other elements inherit qualities from.
And fail to inherit qualities from.
Depending on how crude our answers are or how monodimensional.
What is the sky?
Now we must understand that however we answer
what we're answering with are tokens.
Verbal tokens, category tokens, nouns, adjectives.
And that perspective, that form of structuring our minds when we do this,
which we are so familiar with we don't even think we're doing it, but we do.
That's a representational layer.
That layer is composed and refers to representations.
Composed of and refers to.
And it's an artifact.
It's a library of artifacts, but they're all the artifacts of a strange ability
our species found a way to survive the acquisition of.
I don't know.
The ability to form a layer of thought, behavior, perception, and utilization.
That's outside of nature.
An artifact layer.
And when I say outside of nature,
there are different definitions of natural we might propose.
One of them is that everything that is nature is what is everything that is therefore is natural.
And I'm going to skip over supernatural here at least for the moment.
But the other definition of natural is that which is in harmony with its environment in such a way that it produces
pretty much endlessly new forms of life, of time, of light, of being, of mind.
The
That is the right word.
The nature of the universe is to produce stars and worlds and minds.
And we know this as a fact because it does so here.
As if the Earth is a crystallization of certain qualities in time space that it cannot be other than, you see, Earth doesn't have precedence.
Time space has precedence here.
Time space doesn't come from the Earth, right?
The Earth comes from time space.
So just in the same way a woman bears a human child, a universe bears a living planet.
And that planet is the child of the universe.
There's no way around this.
The forces, light, time, electricity, chemistry, biology,
all of these things are repercussions of the nature of the universe.
They don't start here on Earth.
They start up there.
And so the Earth can be understood as a strange sort of living crystal.
A relatively explicit, physically explicit instance of the nature of time space.
I.e. the sky.
So in this sense, anything that becomes so catastrophically confused that it attacks its own origin,
the history and future of life on Earth, because everything that's alive right now is the living history of life on Earth.
We harm that. We harm the entire history of life on Earth.
And itself, any creature so boldly confused as to attempt something like this and then succeed and then find new ways to do this every minute, every second,
that's not natural.
That's not in harmony with time space, or the world, or life itself, or intelligence, awareness.
That's a monster.
That's a real monster, a true monster.
A monster in the sense that it will eat everything, including itself.
Unless somehow its course is changed, or it becomes intelligent, or something in the equation of the complex tangle of causes that produced the problem of homo sapiens on Earth.
Somewhere in there.
There is medicine.
In the same way that something drew our species into this representational behavior.
Where things and beings are treated as if they are virtual objects in a space that's more important than life, relation, intelligence, survival, fulfillment, joy, adoration, wonder, all.
There's something more important than all of those deeply intrinsic urges and hungers and thirsts in it.
And what's more important than that is representations.
That strange space that the humans have created over time, between themselves and nature, as if they were in what they imagine outer space to be.
In our houses, in our cars, in our computers, we almost perfectly evict nature.
The bacteria, you know, they get in there.
Some insects in the occasional quote unquote pest.
So we've evicted the animal we are and all of its histories and faculties and urgencies and dreams to exist in what?
A physical experience of isolation from nature and each other, isolation from our interiority, our most urgently held ideals and dreams and hopes.
And we drive cars and live in houses and watch TV and look at our smart phones and, of course, there's some other things in there for most of us, hopefully, but fewer and fewer over the past few years for sure, for a number of reasons.
But we live in a representational layer.
You have your little cards and such which represent wealth or your pieces of paper or your gold bars and those represent value.
Value ambiguous by commerce.
Value rendered ambiguous.
It's not a specific form of value, but it should be equivalent to any kind of value, pretty much.
If you have gold or diamonds.
So you can see that money is one of the signs of the transformation in our species where we evacuated ourselves from nature into representations.
So I want to give you a more concrete example.
A friend of mine has a dog.
And I dreamt about this dog, I think, the day before I met him, which I consider to be unusual and significant.
In any case, he loves the dog and it's a young dog and it's very effervescent and spunky and it runs all over the place and he doesn't keep it on a leash.
But at night, this little dog chases cars in a very dangerous way, not in a way where the dog's going to get killed by a car if this continues, most likely.
And my friend says, you know, I just love the fact that he's at liberty.
You know, I don't want to take his liberty from him and put him on a string and I know it might cost him his life.
And I understand my friend's position.
I'm not entirely saying it's wrong, but there's a problem here and the problem is we live outside of nature in a representation where everything's paved for the convenience of people who drive cars and you might even say for the propagation of cars themselves.
The dog is in active sensing.
It doesn't have the concept car equals death.
It's never been injured by a car.
It just thinks those are fun things to chase.
And so you can see here a beautiful example of what's happening to us.
We're getting hit by the car of representational cognition 12 times a minute and we can't even tell it's hurting us as animals.
But there's another feature of the story that I think is important, which is he lives in the representational layer of animals and beings and plants on earth.
The layer that humans composed, built and sustained.
He lives in that layer.
He drives a car, has a bank account, runs a home, you know, lots of little cards and numbers and things that identify him in the representational layer, his driver's license and so on.
That layer is completely fictional, entirely fictional and almost all of the tokens that we use to talk about things in this layer completely fictional.
They are made up ideas that have nearly nothing to do with whatever the sky is or what the world is or what animals and plants are, what we are.
They have to do with departing that.
They have to do with cutting that off and throwing it away.
They have to do with evicting that.
All of that, our true nature as beings, our hearts, our souls, our purpose in being born or the purpose of nature of our birth, our chance to know as human beings while alive in a physical body, the transcendentally impossible intelligence of the planet we live on, the creatures who live here and the sky itself.
And not the intelligence, the intelligences, the symphony of intelligence that is the universe.
What is the sky?
It's not what humans are doing and what the humans are doing is not natural.
It's catastrophically misguided in ways that don't merely...
You know, if there was an extremely advanced alien species that could look at a living planet and unpack its history from its current position,
perhaps because they could sense time, the quality and character of time.
Just something we don't even think about with these humans, or at least we generally don't.
So if there was a species like this and they could look at Earth, they would see that there had been a terrible accident in evolution here.
One of the animals got representational cognition, developed it, or who knows exactly how it happened.
Contact with angels, maybe contact with aliens, maybe both and more.
Contact with the bio-relational hyper-structure that is Earth and the sky, for sure.
That's true.
Yeah, they went mad.
And the reason they would know we went mad is because the creation of machines changes the local quality and character of time itself.
I have to pause here, otherwise I'll fall off the cliff of trying to explain why this is true, and that's not where I want to go.
So we humans have developed, or actually developed is kind of the wrong word,
or if I use this word we should think of it in the same way that we mean when we say someone develops cancer.
The humans became vulnerable to a broad array of what we could think of as cognitive exploits.
And this happened as they fell down the ladder from dreaming and deep and true relation into thinking and ever more explicit and utilitarian concepts of identity.
What things are, who people are, who beings are, what can be a who and what can't, so on and so forth.
In a representational system, identity is effectively equivalent to tokens, words.
If I say tree, we think usually of a distinct, recognizable, vegetal organism.
If we even think of it as an organism, we may think of it so trivially that we just think tree onto the next thing.
But if we actually ask ourselves, you know, what is the tree? What is it doing? What is it being? Who is the tree? Where is the tree? How is the tree?
We come from each of the angles, and we want not to end this process with a token, but with insight. That's a quest.
Especially if we keep doing that instead of the thing of, oh, there's a tree. Oh, there's a tree. Oh, there's a tree. Next, next, next.
Or not even, oh, there's a tree. We could just be driving down the street, lined with trees, no awareness of that there were trees there.
What I want to highlight is that in the outer space of human representational cognition, beings are converted to objects.
And objects are converted to numbers. Beings are converted to money. Living places to money. That money is converted to objects and so on.
It's dead terrain for organisms. And in order to sustain anything like that, our species has to be killing up damn near everything on Earth at all times, 24-7, at ever-increasing intensity and in new ways per day.
So in a sense, we're killing the relational superposition of the organisms of life on Earth by tearing out its roots one by one and stressing them and poisoning them and fucking every other kind of thing.
Now, the Wii that I was using, I just mean the activity of our species as a whole, and particularly the activity of the collectives we think of as nations and corporations and businesses and things like this.
Courtrooms, jails, the military, so all of these farces. All of those farces are completely representational. They're fictions that will eat our lives and the world.
They have no remorse. They are not beings. They don't think they're just processes that our species has collapsed into synchronization with. And so in a sense, we have become these processes.
The dog doesn't have the representation car equals death. The human who watches over the dog does. Therefore, in this case, it seems to me incumbent upon the human to protect the dog in the same way we would protect a child who didn't understand that the things in the street will kill you.
They don't think they're not rational. They do a thing that no animal ever did on Earth, which is just run into everything it possibly could. If it was in its path, it runs it over.
That's a great image of the dark aspect of representational cognition. And of course, it's not all dark. There's beauty in there. That's not the point. If the dark part is going to rip our lives and world apart and damage time, space itself and things like this,
We need to take a look in that direction first. The beauty we can acknowledge and come back to later.
The representational space is a space familiar to one of the minor faculties of our human minds and intelligence.
And it is a faculty that likes to grasp things, but it grasps them in language or concept.
And in this way, it is evicted from relationship. It doesn't want any of that. It wants to know the name or manipulation that produces a good result of some representation.
It lives in a world that's entirely invented out of the category tree and the root concept, which is the universe, and then the subcategories.
Plant animal, valuable garbage, good, bad, beautiful, ugly, tasty, disgusting.
It knows only by how the tokens relate in its lexicon to each other and by the nature of the category tree and what's included in that and what's excluded.
That's its entire dimension of knowledge, which literally has almost zero to do with being a living intelligence, being a human being.
So there's a schism between all the aspects of ourselves that know what I'm saying to be true and are the medicine for that problem.
And the rather desperate, impotent, little, what is it?
Well, it might be thought of as an array of faculties that form a unity, and the unity has all kinds of dangerous qualities.
Totally happy to live, it can say it in language, totally happy to feel threats against the entire universe or the sun or all humans or everything.
It's like a rage-filled jungle of anciently originating and long-evolved aspects of anger.
It's as if there's a simulated self and it only deals with representations and words and concepts and categories.
And it's furiously angry that there's anything else that can even exist.
At all, nothing else should exist.
And the reason it's furiously angry is complex.
It's divided from its own origin and the faculties to which it ordinarily harmonizes.
And so it's become tyrannical and terrified, and that thing will kill everything.
The fascinating discovery to me was just the idea, and I'm not saying any of these things are facts.
I'm saying that they're very useful ways of looking at stuff if we want insight rather than answers, if we want to keep the question alive rather than snuff it out.
And I strongly suggest the former, in the layer of representational cognition, the latter reigns supreme.
What's that?
Oh, it's a tree.
Done.
No more questions.
What's that?
It's a car.
Done.
Not why are there cars?
What the hell are those?
What are humans doing?
I mean, what they're doing is bizarrely catastrophically weird, right?
Paving the planet for cars?
Come on.
No intelligent species would be like, hey, let's pave the planet and make billions of cars and fight wars about it.
Nobody decided that.
The humans aren't deciding anything.
This is the problem.
The structure of the long evolved habits in the representational layer of human activity and thought and behavior and purpose, right?
