For so long that we've passed all point of return and what that means is we will become
extinct.
And if that happens, if we don't turn toward our potential to avert apocalypse, the real
big thing, not just for humans, then everything that we ever did, we will change the entire
meaning of the past of life under.
So we have as human beings the capacity to ennoble the history of life on earth and of
our people, the history of the earth by becoming beautiful together.
But we also have the capacity to end that entire story with a tragedy that was completely
unnecessary and born of insane delusions of power and dominance and abstraction and representation
and our catastrophic vulnerability to and addiction to these aspects which really comprise
very low rungs on the ladder of our potential.
You see, there won't be anything noble about science or philosophy or creativity.
If we crash the vehicle, we made them in support of.
Particularly if we allow the vehicle to be the vehicle of humanity, right, the vehicle
of our history, the vehicle of the history of life on earth.
Particularly if we allow pirates and rapists and insane people to force that vehicle to
crash on purpose for egoic reasons, for reasons related to the acquisition of dominance or
power in an attempt to win something that was never a competition until we made it
one on purpose.
And that's the situation we're in right now.
At least here in the United States, the Commander-in-Chief is this kind of maniac.
And he's replaced many of the organs in the admittedly festering institutions of what
we optimistically refer to as our nation.
He's just wholesale gutted.
And again, you know, many of these institutions are, were, and will continue to be completely
corrupt, right?
These institutions suck.
They don't do what, you know, they're like pretend heroes, occasionally accomplishing
some minor good while imposing, you know, catastrophe wherever they don't do that and
pretending otherwise.
So we're in, we're in a situation like that, we're in, we're in freefall.
And because our methods of assembling institutions and government are so corrupted as to have
just been turned into literal malware, we can't, by merely voting, affect that crisis.
And I've had people come and say, well, you know, this is really depressing, Darren.
You've got a really grim view.
And it's not entirely untrue.
I'm, I'm fairly pessimistic, but not only.
And yet, as human beings, we live in an interval of time.
Our lifetime is one interval and the times in which that lifetime takes place, these
two aspects become married.
And perhaps, well, not perhaps, in a crisis, there are many opportunities for astonishingly
meaningful roles, endeavors, learning and growth, even if the crisis leads off a cliff.
And we know this for a simple, easily understood reason.
Our lives are thus.
They are not infinite.
They're finite.
And eventually, the cells of the body age, we lose resilience, we grow old, and someday
we die.
But the fact that we die enhances the meaningfulness of life rather than detracting from it.
And so, in a time of crisis, transformation, decoherence, fragmentation, we have new opportunities
for roles that would otherwise never occur to us, or our common obligations would prohibit.
And this gives me some hope as well.
And there's another thing that gives me hope.
And this is kind of a big secret, but it's well known from history.
A very small group of intelligent, aware, committed, sincere individuals, say, two groups
of 30 of them, can transform a nation overnight.
We have the capacity for tactical intelligence as human beings that's way beyond anything
we're used to seeing or imagining, and sports teams, again, are a representation of this.
And that's part of why people go nuts when they score a goal or don't.
Small tightly knit groups of highly motivated, intelligent people can directly manipulate
the very accessible pivots on which the entire superstructure of lies is founded.
And that thing can crumble in a week.
And this is kind of a secret weapon in nature's arsenal, in human nature's arsenal, except
it's not an arsenal, it's a toy box.
In case you don't believe me, it's really easy to see how, it's easy to see the dark
side of this, right?
Ten people totally committed to a project of destruction can change the course of a
nation's history in a single day.
But similarly, that same property holds on the other wing, mutual uplift, active sensing,
noble intelligence, noble endeavor.
And I imagine the emergence of something resembling civilian intelligence teams that
are so profoundly endowed and familiar with the weaknesses and vulnerabilities of representational
culture that they can foment an invisible revolution with no or nearly no violence.
And this can happen very quickly.
And we're really good at building and training small tightly knit teams for impossible missions.
And right now, there's a forest of such missions waiting for those teams.
It remains to be seen whether or not we can enter that space together and begin to fulfill
some of the opportunities and responsibilities inherent both in our human nature and in the
moment at hand.
But I am convinced that goal is achievable and it's multi achievable.
And groups and teams like this can link together for mutual benefit intelligence, defense, success.
I know this is reachable.
I've seen it on small time scales.
I've been involved in it on small time scales with small groups.
And it always struck me as astounding that this hadn't caught on like wildfire.
Well, maybe it was waiting for the perfect storm and if it was waiting now is that time.
Though, you know, a year from now could be more that time.
And I hope that we'll do something like this before crisis forces our hand.
Because by that time, we'll be under pressure and right now we could do it without a lot
of pressure.
But in crisis, we will obey the tempo of the threats that we encounter and that path has
fewer degrees of freedom.
With the owls and raptors and crows, ravens choose trees to nest in.
We must choose frames together that are flexible, intelligent, conducive to our own awareness,
our presence, our dreams.
There is no perfect framework.
There are those that are less wrong.
And there are some that lift us above the frame collapses of history and habit and return
degrees of liberty, degrees of freedom to us in thought and relation, endeavor.
We learn to seek those and invent them and embody them together.
