And I strive to live for the living beings and places.
Though like all of us, I'm human, I have habits and desires and confusion and fear, thoughts
and I'm enmeshed in contexts that even if I'm quite agile and attentive, which I'm not,
would still constrain me because the capacity for synchronization for sentient is limited.
I'm enmeshed in a war zone of different noise making representational constructs physical
and non and they are profoundly compelling to nearly everyone.
So there's incredible decoherence, disharmony, dystonia, suffering.
In my last video, I was trying to talk about the necessity of having coherent temporal
and relational space in which to understand and explore and develop to discover, to recover
the faculties and potentials innate in human beings.
And while I was attempting to pursue that topic, because I forgot to turn on airplane
mode on my phone, it's kind of interesting airplane mode lets you go above the local
noise floor, I kept getting signals and interruptions and so I had a little trouble.
But I was trying to highlight the difference between a life in which that coherent space
is broken up at different levels by obligations, tasks, notifications, emails, phone calls,
orders, bills, illness, unnecessary illness particularly, an injury, so that we never
actually settle into a temporality, a tempo, a pace that's coherent and supports our humanity
and our intelligence and our creativity and our hearts, our emotionality that supports
awareness and active sensing, right?
Sensing that's the kind of thing we see going on in, for example, the instant to instant
behavior of a sports team.
None of them know what they're going to do.
They have an array of shared goals and habits and novelty is brought in and the teams compete.
And in fact, one could say the teams partially invent the novelty and are invested in that
novelty because if everything just came off like a set of rules, games would be unimaginably
boring, unimaginably quickly, oh, I'm going to reduce my use of this word.
I've become aware that I keep hyperbalizing this way.
And many games are kind of boring anyway because they're representations of heroism rather
than actual heroism and it's the actual heroism I'm pretty interested in.
And we might notice that it's not uncommon for humans to collapse toward unity of some
kind in a crisis that affects them all.
When there's a threat that affects everyone, humans do the weird thing we used to be.
They cohere.
They reunite.
And you could see this like if there's an earthquake, you'll see both sides of the humans, you'll
see opportunists, some of them, but you'll see other people transform immediately into
people who will risk their lives to save their neighbors.
Neighbors that might actually be unknown to them, which is a really weird, modern idea.
How could you have a neighbor that's unknown to you?
See how common that is though?
How much more so are the living places unknown to most moderns?
They're not your neighbor, they're your body.
Or your their body, or something, or both, and more.
So it's not uncommon that with a certain kind of crisis, the humans, it becomes a, a
syntropy attractor.
And in such situations, the humans achieve super function in a way that is represented
by the actions of those we consider to be sports heroes.
So again, you can see the process of offloading actual faculties, intelligence potential into
abstractions, and then representing them, and then playing them out.
And I find it fascinating that this is so incredibly compelling that you can get a hundred
thousand people together in a stadium, absolutely ecstatic over the fact that three guys moved
a ball 20 yards.
And the looks on their faces are, they're the look that you'd see if someone suddenly
caught a glimpse of the divine, or the layer of the proto-physical.
But what they're seeing, it may be partly divine in the sense that they're seeing the
echo of the otherwise impossible super function that happens when diverse people, each one
unique, unify around a goal they're absolutely passionately engaged with.
What would it be like if we could do that together a lot of the time with goals that
weren't representations, but were truly noble, and humane, and creative, and intelligent,
reverential, awe-inspiring?
I think that's a life many people would defect to.
If we could establish a context, anything that even vaguely resembles that, I think
there'd be a massive emigration from game A into an infinite game.
One that isn't, like if there's competition in that kind of game, it's competition for
mutual super function, right?
It's competition towards entropy.
I mistakenly used the word sentinine earlier because I forgot the word I was looking for.
And what you're witnessing right now is a very localized personal example of that.
So on a podcast I was listening to earlier, I think a guy named Jordan mentioned the
idea of those who speak only when spoken through, which means the voice of the collective of
life on earth and humanity is alive in someone, and they're in service to that, they make
face noises, and write things and stuff.
And that's a form, see what I'm trying to say is that it's not my mind that speaks,
even though my mind forms my words and chooses my path and my reflections.
The history of life on earth speaks when we speak meaningfully and truthfully with great
earnestness and sincerity.
There's space, there's coherence.
For something far beyond us to speak within us first and move our hearts to speak into
the physical world.
Now that guidelines a little bit, perhaps to concrete a translation of its origin, right,
speak only when spoken to.
For us to have the opportunity to discover and recover and invent the most beautiful
and profound aspects of the field of our human potential, which is many layered and extraordinary.
Far beyond our thought and ideas, far beyond our accomplishments.
We have to have coherence, whether one is working alone, or one is engaged in endeavors
on their own, or whether we are together.
In both cases we need temporal coherence, relational coherence, ecological coherence,
and particularly the integrity that allows us to be safe if we establish the space in
which our endeavors will come to life, and it is kept sacred in the sense of not being
constantly violated by noise and bizarre representational obligations and things like this.
We need space.
And I think many people suspect that if they had enough money they'd have enough space,
and it, you know, it could work out in some cases.
But that coherence can't really be purchased, even though you can use the money to defect
from the noise.
You can buy a yacht for the moment, go out and live on the ocean, hope you're good against
pirates, you can buy an island or whatever, you know, whatever the defense is.
But as ordinary people are struggling because the space in which we have to form awareness
and intention and purpose of orientation and perspective is constantly being recursively
intruded by all kinds of representations, by the swarming mass, myriad of representations,
these obligations and, you know, abstract relationships, and in order to have the opportunity
for coherent endeavor space, I think we need each other.
I think we have to form, and there's a way that's totally natural that humans are brilliant
at this.
We need to form little, centipede tractors that become contexts that preserve coherence,
and possibility of synchrony, harmony.
Because the contexts in which we are enmeshed and to which we are exposed, the buffer between
our interiority and the intrusiveness of all of this has been getting shredded for
the past hundred years at least, very significantly in that time.
And there's not much left of it.
And it's interesting to notice that in the current situations that face our people and
nations, societies, cultures, and so on, it's really just been falling down a mountainside
for a long time, longer in some places than in others.
But wherever the kind of colonialist ethic of dominate, destroy, where the heroes cost
you, obliterate the world, you know, torture the people, but give them lots of stuff while
you're torturing them, lots of meaningless stuff, wherever that game's going on.
The integrity even of that game itself, which for a long time was a good competitor, hard
to out-compete until, as others have said, it met itself, and had to compete against
others, you know, using the same frameworks.
And not compete for mutual benefit, compete for dominance, right?
Everyone wants to be on top.
Maybe that's when you get coherent.
Maybe in the representation, that's when you're supposed to inherit the sort of heaven of
coherent, spacious liberty.
It doesn't work out much that way.
Our own bodies are like, they are parables, they're embodied parables of how synchrony
and coherence and mutual altruistic endeavor emerge as first basic physical super-function,
but then other layers of potential super-function, particularly in union with other animals like
ourselves for purposes that are actually noble.
We don't have to be too severe in our definition of nobility.
We can be very modest, we can say something like, whenever we become less wrong together
within for each other, that qualifies as nobility.
When we learn to make truthful, heartful, compassionate sense, intelligent sense together,
and then when we enact those insights together in our behavior, in our relations, in our priorities,
and the purposes which we attend, then that's noble, right?
We can have a general guideline, it doesn't have to collapse into the law, and by the
time it does, we're in trouble.
Once it has to collapse into actual abstract representations, the game of courtrooms, that's
a sign that we were fucked a long time ago.
We managed as a species to accelerate our growth and technology so rapidly that the
stuff we call resources, which are actually living places and beings that get massacred
to produce product and profit, those are now finite.
Previously, in a previous episode, mankind was too small to obliterate the organs of
the earth, which create homeostatic coherence so that you can survive weather changes and
things like this.
In a previous episode, before the onset of industrial technology, we were still capable
of doing a lot of damage, apparently.
From what we know, the early humans on the various continents pretty much took out the
megafauna, the big animals.
Even back then, we were a threat, but we didn't have the capacity to, for example, kill the
ocean or, you know, pave the Amazon rainforest.
Now we're past that.
We've really deeply damaged the ecologies on which our survival depends.
At the moment of highest human population in history, and something very few people
talk about, object and machine proliferation.
Those objects and machines are the physical symptoms of a disease, a cognitive disease,
a relational disease, maybe even a religious disease, a constellated family of diseases
that are the result of our representational inheritance and the capacity to defect from
relation into abstraction.
And this catastrophe is not creating a centropy well in our country.
It's having the opposite effect.
Rather than recognizing, oh, there's a library of active threats, many of which are of our
own creation, that we have to address together immediately.
In fact, we're far too late at addressing them than we should be.
Instead of that bringing us together and causing us to establish trustworthy, sincere, authentic,
intelligent institutions and maybe something like the opposite of corporations as they
presently exist.
We are fragmenting and dumping power into sidedness, competition for dominance, competition
for winning, a kind of apocalyptic competition for the, it is an apocalyptic composition.
We player for themselves at any cost kind of game.
And this is an absolutely lethal moment for our species to fall further down that mountain
side and for any group of humans to fall further down that mountain side.
There's nothing in that direction, in that direction lies oblivion, in that direction
lies horrifying chaos.
And many of us are kind of spoiled or maybe even extremely spoiled in that we've never
seen fields of dead bodies.
But we've certainly seen fields of dead minds and vast landscapes of dead time invading
what might have been meaningful experiences of human interiority.
There's a small population of humans who whether or not they can articulate what I'm reflecting
on the same way, they are deeply aware of what I'm talking about and even the common
humans can sense, holy shit, this isn't going to work, right?
Like this just straight up isn't going to work, this being modernity, game A. Every
faction for themselves at any cost.
Because any cost these days can easily become all costs and I'm encouraged
at the possibility that a crisis like this can produce intentional human centipety and
super function and awakening.
But I'm not terribly optimistic, I only notice there's an opportunity here, it's conceivable
that some group of people will move in that direction or that some groups of people will
move in that direction together intelligently and learn how to forge
the positions that lie far above our cultures of abstraction, identification, projection,
transference, lying, violation, harm.
There's a situation in which one has gone too far to turn around and the temporal pulse
has changed suddenly so that we're like a cartoon character that runs off the edge
of a cliff and keeps running, right?
And then suddenly looks at the camera and goes like whaaaaa and falls down to the crass,
you know the coyote or whatever, Elmer Fudd maybe.
There's a point of no return for human hubris and there are also steps in that process toward
the point of absolutely no return and I'm not sure at all I feel quite concerned that
our species has been playing that game now in ever accelerated little bubbles at the
same time, right?
