Hey everybody, I got a few directions I'd like to explore in today.
But before I get too far into thought, language, ideas, I just want to pause for a moment
and listen to the living place whose natures and forms I am absolutely humbled by.
The living place whose harmonies follow each other.
And if we should look for that which leads them, we might best come up with a few different
perspectives rather than one.
Our intellects, as moderns, are mechanically oriented, or narratively disoriented, or maybe
both, maybe a lot of both.
But the thing that stands out, primary, blatantly, is the de facto arbiter of synchronization
to the mind that sees distinct objects and beings is this, the sun.
And in a way, the sun is like the point at the center of the circle of coherence for
life on Earth.
However, maybe the center of the sphere is better, or maybe a position beyond that.
But there are other ways of seeing it, that for example, life on Earth, it's anciently
evolved harmonies and synchronies and relationships, that these two aspects form a couplet.
And I think if we're thinking rationally, it might be difficult to suppose that the incredibly
profuse and unimaginably ancient is that word again that I like a lot, even though I'm
imagining things.
I have to imagine things to say unimaginably.
See how language works?
The profound communion of life on Earth is ancient in ways we don't have concepts for
yet, but we could develop them so that they become available to our thought and our awareness.
And some of us do.
In fact, everyone does to some degree in some set of domains.
But these two primordial aspects can certainly inform each other.
However we might see the sun as sovereign rationally.
And there are many other players, the moon, the history of the universe.
The peculiar adventures our planet underwent developmentally and is still undergoing.
Because I want to listen with my inner being and my ears and my feet, my skin, my eyes,
my heart, my dreams.
I want to listen to the stories before language gets ahold of them and feel them.
Rectangle, amazing trees.
I actually feel like kind of a character in a science fiction novel.
I was born in the age when science fiction was still young, though there had been older
examples.
And it was a craze in my childhood and I read vast quantities of it.
And I had dreams of futures.
But now we're living something inconceivable to most of us.
And so as individuals and cultures and nations and societies, the humans have fragmented
into little groups of factions.
Each less effective than the next at things that are fundamental like being human or understanding
or meaningful relation or adequate threat awareness, adequate coherence.
So by way of listening, when I first entered the gardens today and was reflective, I saw
a butterfly and it was sunning itself on a leaf.
And I noticed something peculiar about it.
And since I'm aware of bilateral symmetry in animals and how the right and left sides
that reach centropy in the whole, right, in the union.
And I think about hemispheric lateralization, the unique natures of the different sides of
the human body, from what we have been able to learn, not merely from research, but from
being human, and from observing things with care and wonder and seeing otherwise invisible
hints and clues about the big questions and what it means to be human in sidedness.
In the dominance of rectitude, the right hand, the side of the body, and I mean this as a
parable, not literally, that doesn't have the heart.
Now that side of the body probably has one or two, you know, the right side probably has
one or two organs.
I'm not a student of anatomy much, that aren't located on the left, maybe the appendix.
What I wish to highlight, however, is that the butterfly that I saw, its right wing looked
brand new and very healthy.
The left wing was broken down and you could see on the surface of the wing that it was
probably not merely the result of misadventure.
In other words, it wasn't just that an accident had happened that injured the butterfly's
left wing, and in fact it was capable of flying.
It appeared, and I can't be sure of this, that the circulatory system on the left side
of that insect's body had been breaking down.
And I don't want to ascribe too specific a meaning to that, but rather to just notice
it, that the left side of the creature was breaking down.
And we might say, well, it is aging, which wouldn't be untrue.
And I don't know where the organs are situated in butterflies.
In fact, I think insects are unusual, they have exoskeletons.
They tend to be pretty goopy inside, to the uneducated observer at least.
And again, though I don't wish to collapse this into any specific point, it did occur
to me that in our cultures, at least in American culture, there's kind of a tradition, if
we look back, and it gets murky and it's not perfectly distinct, but there's kind
of a tradition that the left side are the visionaries, and the dreamers, and those who
want to help society cohere.
On the right side, generally, do you know how I just switched sides there, is pragmatic
utilitarian, success-driven, progress-driven, financially-driven, war-driven.
But we're in a weird bardo, a between place right now, where strange kinds of disease
and malware have infected what we would usually think of as the people of the vision.
Now of course there's layers and layers of representation here, right?
So there's all these layers where things get abstracted, I don't want to just talk about
layers of abstraction.
Our societies and our nations abandon relation by building layers of abstraction, and so
to do they abandon intelligence, centropy, and super function.
The potentials that would naturally have emerged as otherwise impossible actual advancements
get represented, codified, financialized, incentivized by non-being, incentivized by
absence of being together, and then presented as togetherness.
What a shock.
So the processes that rob us of synergy and centropy and synchronization and coherence,
these always present perennially as heroic and advanced, though I'd love to see what
meaning we would actually associate with that in the modern situation.
We represent features of our humanity and intelligence, personal and collective of our
organismal nature, our animality, our not merely physical, so I'm going to say proto-physical
rather than metaphysical, right, before the physical.
When all of this gets represented and we get religions and corporations and governments
and wars and bizarre technological advances that are not only meaningless in the sense
that they produce the common opposite of their promises, still representing as heroic, right?
We're going to connect everybody, how did that work out?
So our species is driven by these habits and their traditions, too, and they wiped out
the old traditions because they're extremely fit for competition in an environment where
there's unlimited resources.
If you have unlimited resources, you can do incredibly insane things all day long and
survive them.
Now, it's only certain kinds of insane things that you can get away with doing if you want
to survive, but that field is nearly inexhaustible.
You can keep finding new insane things to do because you can just burn unimaginable resources
in any direction that some collective happens to decide might be, might grant it competitive
advantage because all of these representations are actually competing against each other
for dominance, and we are the inaction bodies of that process, human beings.
We have become literally possessed, and trust me when I say this, it makes no difference
whatsoever in the outcome for us and our experience and for life on Earth, whether we are possessed
by a demon or by a delusion.
Works out about the same.
And in case it isn't clear, most of the stuff our people are possessed by produces results
that they pretty much look demonic.
Now, I'm going to ask that we not collapse that frame, right?
We're not going to say, like, is it spiritually evil?
I think fundamentally it does matter if what we mean by spiritual authentically refers
to proto-physical, to the layer of inexplicable mystery and monumental potency that underlies
the existence of beings like those on Earth and like ourselves, all of which are expressions
of something beyond mere love.
The love is involved.
There are expressions of communion, which is the process we might visualize as beginning
at unity, descending into diversity, from there descending into physical embodiment
in distinct organisms and relationships, and from that position moving back up the ladder,
to unify within the physical what began as unity in the proto-physical, reunion, communion, awareness.
Actually, it didn't begin as unity.
It began as something far weirder that we have no good language about.
I mean, I'm trying to think of some way to speak toward it, meaningfully.
It's not mere unity.
It's explosively mysteriously intelligent.
It's beyond alive.
The reunion is the experience while embodied of not thinking about what I'm talking about,
but the direct experience of it is when I saw the butterfly's wing.
For a very tiny example, there are much bigger ones I could give, but that wing, the left
side, it was dying.
And there's this old story, there's many old stories, where the right side attacks the
left side and kills it, thus banishing it to what we might call the underworld, which
could be the proto-physical, the before of the physical, a dreaming place, the land of
the dead.
There are many such stories like this, and one of the things that's going on as the individuals
and societies and groups now present on earth for the science-friction cascade we're currently
engaged in is that
the left side is undergoing a conversion, a damaging conversion to artifact, abstraction,
semantics.
Language and conception and representation are now invading the dreaming aspect of our
people, and there's some crossover there in our ridiculously abstracted political system
here in the United States that's mostly just a clusterfuck of malware, a clusterfuck of
bad programs that are being run primarily for power and profit in a time when it's never
been more necessary that something else obtain, that something noble and true become not just
the goal of those we elect, but the necessary precondition of our potential to form intelligent
meaningful society together, within for each other, within for the history and future of
life on our planet.
And those who say, well, life's not in danger, good for you.
You know, life will bounce back, really?
Did you feel that way when you lost your parents or your grandparents?
Did you feel like, well, I'll just bounce back?
Nature's really resilient.
She can take whatever we can throw at her.
And we are nature.
And we are fragile.
And the environment of this planet has paradiscally over-endowed as it has been and still to some
degree remains is fragile.
Abstractions and generalizations of the resilience of the environment are insane because they
are promoted to defend deflection.
Well, we don't really have to be concerned about that.
That stuff will all bounce back, really?
Well, imagine that you had the same perspective on the organs in your body.
Well, I can just sell my kidneys, they'll bounce back eventually.
Who needs lungs?
The heart's good enough, it can do the work of all the other organs.
You wouldn't last a microsecond if actual decisions were made according to that logic.
But what I want to say is just that the environment is much more fragile than we imagine.
And if we wipe everything out, we can't say in the future whether or not life will reemerge
on this world.
What we can say is that the anciently preserved ecologies with their unimaginable intelligence
and profound symbiotic communion.
The birthplace of our bodies and intelligences will have been sacrificed for a series of
abstract illusions that are meaningless except for their incredible virulence and potential
to propagate in human minds.
There's no scenario where that turns out well for anything, including the sun.
Because somehow our world is not merely one of the organs of the sun.
It's probably the only one with physically embodied minds.
And something else we don't have a word for, which is the likeness or the metaposition
of minds in living places, animals, plants, insects, fish, birds.
What I speak of here is something our distant ancestors were aware of and it made them ecstatic
and they were filled with awe and reverence and it wasn't because they were superstitious.
Perhaps as their societies collapsed, superstition became an abstraction floating on the top
of that.
Really?
This young hawk on the ground.
It's hard to see.
We're pausing to listen for a moment.
When I see that hawk move and fly, I see a language older than time as we think about
it.
I see embodied intelligence.
And I'm reassured.
I know how bad things can get so when I see a tree, I feel so privileged to even just
see one tree or one bird because I live in the phase of life on earth where this
lives with me.
