Language has been a passionate mind since I was a small child, and my relationship with
it is certainly peculiar.
But in my later years, I came to recognize that even with my relatively advanced language
skills, I was poorly equipped to understand the relationship between language and intelligence,
and particularly to understand how language, which seems to be one of the finest, one of
the finest accomplishments and distinctions of our species, one that we must imagine endows
us with the possibility of intelligence.
It took me a long time to realize that this faculty and its associated repercussions
are an unexpected and incredibly deep danger, because we are very ignorant about the relationship
between language and intelligence, and what this means is that in simple terms we have
far too naive a relationship with language, so that language stands above us, above our
intelligence, declaring things down to it as if language itself were a being or an
authority or a God even.
And very few of us, it seems to me in our lifetimes, acquire the necessary awareness
of this to do anything about it, and many of these people are in narrow fields of expertise
so that when they manage to acquire it, it doesn't leak out into the general public.
In fact, the general public's common standards of language comprehension and mastery are
catastrophically low, and they compete against each other to lower the bar further almost
every time anyone does or says anything, so we're in a really dangerous relationship
with language, and it's my conviction that we have to help each other.
No one will save us from this, right?
So we all must become activists about our relationships with language and knowledge,
and what that means is together to discover and explore and play with and learn about
the dangers of our relationships with language and the dangers of our relationships with
knowledge, and there are many, many of these.
And also, there are remedies, which are almost always quite accessible.
And then finally, the opportunities that have been hidden from us by the fact that most
of our relationships with language and knowledge have this peculiar quality of being self-retired
and starting.
For all their apparent utility, we're losing, we're spending way too many possible benefits
to get a highly focused, narrow benefit, and in so doing, we're missing the lion's share
of the actually available benefits as well as getting caught up in the dangers.
One of the ways that we can begin to learn was lots of different aspects of learning
about language and its dangers.
Many of them deal with the topic known as rhetoric.
So this word is often unclear to people who've heard it used casually.
In casual use it can mean, for example, fancy language sophistry that doesn't have any
real content or basis or verity, right, truth value.
But in philosophy and in the study of language, rhetoric is more or less, it's a broad topic
and there's various ways to come at it, but to make it kind of simple, it is the studies
of the forms that we, especially in English and Western languages, use to communicate,
including tropes like metaphor and simile, and also a study of the fallacies, a specific
branch of rhetoric deals with logical or rhetorical fallacies, excuse me, and this is the study
of some 50 or 60, perhaps more, specific errors that are consistently made when we relate
with language and arguments.
So I think it's that the study of rhetoric is absolutely crucial and that we need to
help each other to learn this topic, which should have been taught to us in childhood.
It's shocking that it isn't taught to us in childhood, in fact it's rarely taught to anyone
other than some rather specialized academics.
Although some high school students may in a good school get a glancing exposure to it,
which is completely insufficient and probably will not fascinate them, but we should all
really be fascinated with language and rhetoric, rhetorical intelligence, because these are
faculties that our conscious intelligence requires to even be possible.
Without these faculties, language becomes a curse, at least as much as it is an asset.
It is incredibly difficult for common people, even very intelligent people, even linguistically
intelligent people to navigate these hidden reefs of danger that lie in the very nature
of our relationship with conscious representation of ideas, concepts, naming, labeling, comparisons,
evaluation, perspective.
The problem with language that's hard to see is that there's many, but one of the most
incredibly important ones is, it selects perspectives that are insufficiently broad
and clairs them as truthful, complete, or trustworthy.
And this is always false, but it feels true, so it's kind of a collapse of the possibilities
into a specific derivative, right?
And the derivative seems godlike, obviously that is a tree.
No it isn't.
The problem is the tree is a word, and whatever that might be over there we're pointing at
actually isn't really distinct.
It's only distinct as a convenience, and language emphasizes this convenience and throws away
the fact that it's making up a story about something.
So we use tokens, like words, to refer to phenomenon.
The problem with this is that we are inclined to believe that once we know that that's called
a tree, we know what a tree is.
We're inclined to confuse the derivatives with what they point to, and when we do that,
that creates what you might understand as a collapse of orders.
The order of the intelligence that should be, overstanding language, collapses into
language, and is now there existing at the same order so there's no way to differentiate
them.
They look like the same thing.
If you know what the tree, if you know the name of the tree, you know what it is, which
is of course impossible to know what a tree is.
Honestly, it's a question that no human lifetime is sufficiently long enough to even begin,
more than much begin an approach to.
For a tree, like all things, is everything at once in a unique little package, and it's
also not distinct.
Language distinguishes it, concepts distinguish it, but the tree is not really distinct.
Like, you know, one is reminded of the difference between the mind, all of its possibilities
including dreaming and emotion and everything, and words.
These are not the same order of phenomenon, so if we collapse them and pretend that they
are the same order, my mind is what I know in words, you see we've thrown away the body
for the fingernail.
And one of the ways that ancient people pointed at this problem, and moderns are not very
adept with it, although philosophers can be somewhat, is with paradoxes.
And there's some that we're all really familiar with, because we've heard them a lot.
And I'm going to play through three of them quickly to show you an interesting feature
of the structure of these paradoxes that when revealed, not only resolves them, but illustrates
the dangers of language in such a way that we can grasp them immediately, I think.
So the first one is, which came first, the chicken or the egg?
And in this case, we've got a peculiar collapse, I'm not sure exactly what to call it.
It appears at first glance to be a collapse of two orders of meaning and identity, one
which is derivative that comes from another that is progenerative of orders of priority,
right?
Now that sounds really sophisticated, so let me see if I can make some simple language
about that.
When we ask which comes first about this phenomenon, known as the chicken, you're trying to make
like a rod from a circle.
And so there's a collapse of dimensionality.
We're going from, obviously, even though we may not know what the dimensions are, it's
very clear, from a circle to a line, you've collapsed the dimensionality.
Now what's really interesting about a circle is that if you could look at it edge on, it
would look like a line.
So there's the collapse of dimensionality right there.
But there's a really interesting way to approach this paradox that I think is, at least for
me, useful and at once resolves and demonstrates the problem.
When we ask a question like which comes first, the chicken or the egg, we don't notice that
we're playing with language in a way that will, that was designed to stymie us.
Well maybe we do notice this, but we don't know what to do with it.
Insightfully understanding language carefully, we can see that the humans impose a witch-ness
on a circle and they're demanding that a circle demonstrate the properties of a line.
But it can't properly do that.
If you put egg at the top and chicken at the bottom of a circle, it's very clear that a
witch comes first, so to speak, depends on your approach.
If you approach from the chicken side, it's going to look like the chicken comes first
and lays the egg.
If you approach from the egg side, it's going to look like the egg comes first and the chicken
emerges from it.
And then the question is also implying that there must have been a first chicken or a first
egg, which is not entirely true and very deceptive.
And again, language is collapsing, something that has many dimensions into one that is
familiar and easily manipulated.
The point I want to make, though, is that the human mind formed a perspective and asked
this question.
The human mind imposed witch-ness on something that can't possess that mode of witch-ness
and didn't declare that up front, and so created the problem that it, and then pretended
it didn't, and then let the problem lie there and say, this is a normal real problem.
It's obviously a question we can ask.
Why doesn't it work, and what is the answer?
Well, the answer is kind of which came first.
Humans having this goal of putting which into this question came first, so the question
answers itself.
Which came first, the chicken or the egg?
The actual answer is which.
Humans putting witch-ness into a circle where it doesn't fit is what came first in this
particular question.
And to recognize that, to notice that the human mind imposed a polarity, a dimensional polarity
on something that cannot possibly sustain it, what we discover is that the problem comes
from the humans imposing this mode of witch-ness, has little to do with chickens or eggs, has
to do with language.
So there's that one.
Now there's another one that I find very interesting, which is, and all of these paradoxes have
implications I'm not exploring.
Some of those implications are important, maybe even central, but I want to explore the particular
features that are unusually discussed and easily accessed that tell us something about
the structure of the paradoxes and of language.
So there's this other interesting, not precisely a paradox, but an important, strange question.
If a tree falls in the forest and no one is there to hear it, does it make any sound?
This is a very sophisticated philosophical question.
It's not as obvious as it sounds in simple language, but there are some features of it
that I want to point out really quickly.
The meaning of the word forest must absolutely be a very complex living place with many organisms.
So the idea of a forest with nothing to hear is ridiculous.
What we're talking about is not a forest, it's an abstract thought experiment.
We're calling it a forest, but it isn't one.
And whatever falls there definitely doesn't make a sound, because it's an abstract universe,
there's never a hearer in that room.
This whole question establishes a little imaginary box, and we don't know what it is, but we
can be sure it isn't a forest.
And there definitely aren't any people in an abstract idea construct.
So the tree that falls in this forest makes no sound at all, that's for damn sure.
But in any kind of real forest you've got a living hyper system of myriads of kinds
of organisms.
In fact the tree isn't even a single organism, it's not even close to being a single organism.
So any tree that falls in a forest, all kinds of things hear it.
If there are no things to hear it, that's not a forest.
And so there's nothing like that, that's something someone made up in their mind.
And whatever falls in that construct doesn't do much of anything, it's just an idea.
In any real forest there are always listeners.
So then if we say, okay well what if we mean not any listener, but what if we mean if there's
a forest and there's no human listener, does it make a sound?
Okay well that's a reasonable question, and that defeats my objection.
In this case, as we understand the meaning of sound, the question is not too complex.
We know that animals are hearing their birds and creatures in this forest.
And as long as we are willing to agree that noises that we hear and call sound are the
same phenomenon as noises that they hear and call sound, then the question doesn't even
exist.
It's obviously true, yes of course it makes sound.
But if we ask something weirder, which is if there's no human there and the tree falls,
does it make any sound, meaning explicitly what a human would perceive and call human
sensed sound, that's a more interesting question and a bit more difficult.
We must imagine that it does, but with no one to call it sound, is it sound?
All of these things are hidden in this question, not easily seen.
And finally, thank you for your patience so far by the way, I want to examine a paradox
that's been carefully examined by great thinkers throughout history, and may be familiar to
you, it's the Liar's Paradox.
A simple form of it is something like, Joe, a cretin, declares, all cretins only and
always lie.
The standing question is, is Joe telling the truth?
Now obviously if Joe's telling the truth and he's lying, if he's lying he's telling
the truth.
This is interestingly structurally similar to the chicken and egg question, there's a
structural similarity even though the forms are different.
