in danger here because I'm going to start talking about norms, as the intelligence of
the common, sort of, the most common denominator of spectator culture, okay, I'm calling out
a segment.
Boy, am I in trouble.
The most common denominator, they're not particularly intelligent.
And they can be easily swayed by impassioned narratives or arguments to believe things
that aren't only wrong, they're impossible, like they need a major upgrade to get to wrong.
And when people begin to police each other's sexual behavior in ways that propose that
they know what's normal for other people, we're in really dangerous territory, in my
view, because there's all kinds of things about each human being, so this is the other
side of the coin of generalization, its specificity, right, it's the uniqueness of any actually
individual being or moment of that being or situation of that being, and this doesn't
get enough airplay.
And part of the reason is that our culture is structured, right, to, well, partly it's
structured by inveterate policing, right, we experienced this throughout our lives,
but from childhood onward, many of us will, at least from the culture, if not from our
own parents, family, and peers, we're going to get policed, right, we're going to get
rewarded for, we're going to get rewarded for matching the dominant paradigms and frameworks
and models, and we're going to get punished for deviation, right, and in fact the whole
I, you know, the word deviant, it has a negative connotation in English, that doesn't mean
that every use, right, generalizations again, that doesn't mean that every use implies
negativity, but the general connotation is one of negativity.
To call someone a deviant is to denigrate them.
Now there are those of us who have learned that most of our humanity and intelligence
lies in the domain of deviation from normative behaviors, because the normative behaviors
shave off 87% of what we were born as and could grow up to be if only we had cultures
that encouraged rather than punished that, right, and we can develop those cultures between
each other regardless of the situation in which we find ourselves, as long as we are
A, aware of that possibility, and B, not deceived by the constant fucking normative policing
that we're subject to throughout our lives, and it's funny that the sort of normative
policing can go so far that the people who the common culture might refer to as deviance
could begin policing themselves in the same kind of way that extreme conservatives might
otherwise.
Do you like left?
The cultural left, which of course is also a ridiculous idea, but it's one that's familiar
to most of us, the left and the right and the conservatives and the liberals and so
on and so forth.
It's really interesting that at the extreme side of the left you get ideas that actually
resemble, very strongly, ideas emerging from extremely conservative right wing ideologies.
That's a good crow feather, alright.
Kind of want to, kind of want it, but I'm going to resist my, um, so these mushrooms,
these fungi, are common now in this moon cycle.
Here's one that hasn't really sprouted yet and might have been stepped on in the center
of one that exploded.
Uh, yeah, it's weird that you can go so far left that the behavior starts to resemble in
various ways.
The bizarre, um, critical severity and blindness, myopia, right, um, the Cyclops one-eyed thing
that we're relatively used to from extreme right wing conservatives and such, uh, but
one of the things that's happening right now is our, our cultures are factinating.
They're, they're fra, especially in the United States, we're fragmenting and that, that
process is being intentionally fomented from without and within, right.
There's all kinds of predators that can take advantage of that.
If you can just fragment the population, they can be had.
So unfortunately people think like, people have this thought that they're defending
some incredibly important right or historical ideology or perspective and they think they're,
they think they're heroically defending some idea when really a lot of what's going on
is just the transmission of various information diseases, um, that are highly contagious and
have been intentionally constructed for both, um, contagion and damage and, you know, uh,
virulence, yeah, um.
When we become aware of that, we acquire, we begin, we have the possibility of acquiring
a degree of immunity and I'm using analogies of disease on purpose, um, certainly toxic
information causes something very similar to disease in human beings.
I avoided the news explicitly for many, many years and only recently due to a change in
my employment, uh, I had to become sort of more, more aware of the news, um, which has
been, um, largely miserable process.
More miserable is what I see in social media where I watch the, the spread of contagious
of, of, of sort of contagious info weapons, right?
And the emergence of what I'll refer to or sort of the resurgence really and, and emphasis
on normative policing, uh, is, is really frightening because most of the people who are engaged
in that behavior with some few exceptions, I don't want to be too hyperbolic here, but
I wouldn't trust them with silverware, let alone computers, let alone social media.
Um, these people are not insightful enough to tell the difference between a peach and
a bomb.
And so they somehow feel they have been, um, encouraged by a kind of inflammation by, by
the intentional inflammation of an aspect of their political ego or their informational
ego to distribute diseases and think this somehow righteous or heroic.
It's a fascinating phenomenon that we can learn a great deal from and we must, if we
are to, if we are to evade the relatively terrifying latter stage consequences of this
and if we are to learn together and teach each other how to recognize the signs of this
and avoid it.
Now I have a model of a system that I call the knowledge amp that would, it has the
following properties, it's very simple, it would give us a browser that works more like
our minds, it would, it would access the internet in a way much more like how our intelligence
uses memory instead of the index of a book filled with a bunch of advertisements, um,
it would allow us to kind of dream in data the browser would, then it would have an aspect
that's a vetting sentinel that would produce a profile of any media item that would help
us understand its, um, its origins, its verity, like it would give us a verity, uh, readout
like how dependable is this information.
It would, it would help us understand the, uh, the pedigree of information, like where
does this site, where do these ideas originate, who prospers when they're spread, who makes
money if this media item gets circulated, um, is this original information, is it a conglomerate
of things woven together, is it mostly stolen, is it mostly spin, is the language in the,
in the media suspect, it would give us a readout on any, any kind of media that we could, uh,
access on the internet, and I call that the verity sentinel.
And then, um, there's an analytics engine that would keep all of the analytic data that
we produce by interacting with machines private to ourselves, and allow us to make profiles
so that we can search the internet as ourselves rather than people like us or our psychographic
profile, and that would have layers of shareability so that we could form sort of, um, little
societies of shared intelligence with people both like and unlike us, and this would help
us to understand things that might be particularly dangerous for us, or things that might be
particularly useful for us, um, it would keep all the analytics separate, and that would
become a valuable commodity over time that we could opt into sharing anonymized data
from if we wanted to, with corporations instead of just having that data stolen, and we would
be paid for that.
And again, over time, that thing would become incredibly valuable, and it's a very sophisticated
element.
We could even produce profiles for people who are no longer alive.
We could analyze, for example, the works of Einstein, or even Da Vinci, and produce profiles
so that we could search the web as another human being.
Uh, and that would protect our privacy, right?
This system would be completely, um, distinguished from the internet, and the internet would
be accessed through its servers with anonymized data so that we couldn't be tracked and traced.
Uh, and then there's a social media adventuring aspect where we could have an avatar, and
we can form teams, not entirely unlike sports teams, that would compete together to solve
actual problems in the real world.
And ordinary people could have multiple ways of being a personality that competes in teams
with others to help solve real world problems and earns rewards for doing so.
So that's, that's the reason, the main reason that I posed that little map is that the,
the Verity Sentinel, um, that particular feature is something we desperately need.
And this idea is almost, like, 15 years old.
This isn't new.
We're still using browsers and technology that was invented in the 90s, and nobody's
even had one better idea.
So we're in danger of a situation like our government where we're, we never upgraded
the OS, right?
We're using something that's catastrophically outdated and thinking ourselves modern, and
it's, it's filled with bloatware and malware and viruses and spyware.
Our internet has become the opposite of anything we would hope for it to be, by and large,
with a few reasonable, you know, exceptions.
Um, I think, when I think of exceptions, I think of things like Wikipedia, some of the
online learning portals that are really popular that'll teach you mathematics, for example,
or physics, um, their, their names escape me at the moment, but I've used a couple of
them.
Uh, there's amazing, there's some amazing educational resources that are, that are trustworthy
and good.
I think, um, Wolfram, the creator of Mathematica, what he's done with the internet is astonishing
and brilliant and good.
Uh, let's see, what else is really good?
I mean, those are, those are some of the examples that come immediately to mind.
So we need something to, we need to train, we need to use humans and machines together.
We need human assisted computational heuristics.
I'm not going to call it AI because I don't actually believe there's anything like intelligence
in devices.
Disagree with that language vehemently, but we need human assisted computational heuristics
or hatch.
Yeah.
And, and then we can use, we can train machines to profile media in a way where we can immediately
tell like what the dependability factor is of any given piece of media.
It's pedigree, it's origins, what it relates to, linked ideas, connotations.
See this is the other thing.
We, we are living in a, in a culture that uses language denotatively, but most of our actual
intelligence isn't denotative, it's associative, right?
Connotations matter.
The ideas that surround a central figure are important and we need to build into, um, information
systems that reflect this because if we don't, our own intelligence is going to collapse
down to this denotative derivation.
And as we watch that process go on, as I've been observing that over the years, it's terrifying.
It's absolutely terrifying.
Um, people's minds are collapsing into these sort of tokenized, very disabling, um, modes,
forms, purposes, functions, and so on.
And the, the forces that benefit from that are just going to keep encouraging it because
it, it's a payday every time it happens, right?
And if it's not a payday, it's a war win, right?
It doesn't have to pay, it just has to win in combat.
Yeah.
And so if you can get a population to start attacking themselves and we're seeing, um,
astonishing evidence of this in the United States at this, at the moment, you've won
a war you didn't have to fight.
The citizens fought it for you against each other, right?
So all you really need to do is fragment those populations, make sure they stay ignorant
and can't tell the difference between reliable media and contagions and then you win.
And this is part of what has resulted in the normative policing, uh, process around,
for example, uh, human sexuality.
It's not reasonable to tell other people what's normal about their sexuality, how many times
to have sex a week or a day or whatever, right?
There's nothing, you can make generalizations, but you better call them that and you should
certainly say, not you, but one, should certainly like say there's going to be every kind of
divergence from these norms we suggest.
But how could it, unless, unless we could observe wild type humans, right?
Humans uninculturated, yeah?
Humans not infected with representational cognition.
How would we know what is normal?
We have no, there's no baseline, right?
People can make various suggestions for various reasons and, you know, they'll, they'll acquire
audiences and those audiences will, you know, agree or disagree or whatever, they'll get
contention audience.
But this normative policing thing is, is a real problem in my view, particularly as regards
something as personal and uniquely specific to each human being as their sensual nature.
I know people across all different kinds across the whole spectrum of human sexuality, right?
And in fact, I think in general, culturally speaking, the way our cultures view sexuality
and the way it's used in our culture, both to sell things and as a commodity, this seems
to me very disturbing in general, but what I'm going to say is that our cultures are
too timid to understand the actual nature of human sexuality, far, far too timid.
To understand the actual range of what is natural in human beings would obliterate our
ideas of normalcy.
So for people to be normatively policing others around sex seems important, right?
In a way that alerts me that there's a problem, um, but it goes back to this idea of gender
generalizing, right?
It goes back to, I'll tell you what a human is, and the way I'll tell you is by taking
an average over some population and then projecting it back to you and telling you what I think
