the, the sort of pivot points or the, the bar graph, you know, should look like.
And shouldness is a whole other nightmare topic in human thought, but it's true that
generalizations are not without merit.
As I said, we can use them as shortcuts to protect us from having to overanalyze or over
attend a phenomenon, and they're an important aspect of our human cognition, but we need
to be aware of their dangers, particularly in informational environments and situations
and the sort of terrifying clusterfuck that we call social media, which is almost, it's
really more like a pool of diseases than it's like a society as far as I'm concerned, at
least at the moment.
I think we could change that.
I think we have to change it, but for right now it's, it's a pretty, it's a messy battleground,
particularly now when the stakes are high, right?
They're higher than they've ever been, and they're going to keep climbing higher, which
means what I'm talking about now, more than likely five years from now, people will look
back on this and say, oh, he was kind of timid.
He really didn't call out the problems as severely enough as, as they needed to be called
out.
He must have been really holding back because over the next five years we're going to see
behavior unlike anything we've ever seen in the history of our species.
And the battleground for supremacy in online contexts and interactions is going to heat
up to a boil right quick here, I think.
And we're going to see all kinds of other unexpected behavior from bad actors.
We're going to see really complex hacks.
We're going to see sophisticated attacks against infrastructure, electricity, food production.
We're going to see a lot of new kinds of warfare that our military is absolutely unprepared
to meet, primarily because we've been busy building machines, you know, we've been busy
building conventional war assets and the time we live in.
It's not that conventional war is an anachronism, you know, you can still have land wars, but
what's going to go on now, which is much easier and less complex to foment and pursue, are
going to be modes of war that we're familiar with the possibility of, but have only rarely
seen direct examples of.
So hopefully we've traversed some useful terrain today and I'm grateful that we had this time
and that we could explore some of the unique and often troubling features of our modern
relationships with language, knowledge, computing technologies, and the idea of norms.
I think just before I go, I just want to highlight how incredibly unique each of us really is.
It's not that we don't fit in a class, you know, you can reasonably call us all human,
but every one of us is unique and different moments of us are different.
And in different contexts, we are different.
It's almost like we need, we're like an animal that's incomplete and we are completed by the
contexts and relationships we entertain.
So I want us to have the opportunity to foment and forge and experience contexts that are
diverse and fulfilling and intelligent, encouraging that allow us to discover the incredible diversity
that is the natural sort of foundation of our human nature.
And unless we establish those contexts together, we're going to get the like the low hanging
bat, like sort of the rotten fruit of the culture and the internet and, you know, the
thought police.
So let's do something else, shall we?
Thanks for joining me.
The Great Entrance Cyprus.
