Hey everybody, I'm here at the Botanical Gardens.
This is the tree that I call Lightchanger.
I have names for some trees, but not all of them.
Because as the sun is setting, this tree, it glows in all kinds of different ways, and
you can see how it's got this really amazing golden tint at its edges.
Under ordinary circumstances, those birds would not generally let humans get that close
to them.
And this is a time in the gardens when animals take advantage of the lack of humans, which
has been pretty extreme for the past couple of months during the pandemic.
As sometimes happens, I'm not entirely sure what I'm going to talk about today, but in
my last video I spoke a lot about how America is a delusional Disneyland prison complex.
And I think there's some truth to what I said there, although I don't want to make it explicit.
I don't want to say, for example, that's the only thing America is, because that would
just be lying.
There are lots of amazing experiments that first happened here that didn't happen elsewhere.
Lots of experiments in, and you know, it's not like they succeeded perfectly, but I'm
pretty sure that our country was the first country, and I'll happily stand corrected
if I've got this wrong.
I'm pretty sure our country was the first country to grant women the vote, which was
a very important step in recognizing women as completely human rights endowed full beings.
Now it's ironic that any other situation could have ever obtained, because men begin as organs
of women.
So if there's something fundamentally wrong with women, it's pretty hard to see how the
men are somehow raised above that, or elevated, it's very confusing.
So I can frame models where, in a very naive and bizarre way, we can imagine that.
Someone on the newsfeed the other day was mentioning, as most of you know, I'm a huge
fan of hymenoptera, and I pause so that you get the sense of the word.
The word hymen directly refers to the physical part of a woman that we also call her maidenhead,
that which is penetrated and broken or torn the first time that she, usually the first
time that she has intercourse, which we must hope is a consensual moment, though in vast
numbers of cases it is not.
So yeah, hymenoptera are the bees and ants and wasps, and I'm endlessly fascinated by
them and I have a very rich and deep historical relationship with these amazing, complex, intelligent
organisms.
And the other day, here in the garden, I actually stepped on top of a yellow jacket nest because
I was too busy making a video and playing with, you know, what we call owl pellets or
raptor pellets to pay attention to where I was putting my feet.
And that's the kind of incredible ignorance, I mean I'm going to just straight up say that
I was being stupid.
I was doing something I've seen other people do and we know other people have died of,
right?
They're so busy with their smart phone that it got them killed, yeah?
And that event could easily have resulted in me being severely injured or killed, even
though death is not a common repercussion of being swarmed by yellow jackets.
I've been having a conversation about human sexuality and various aspects of how the topic
is introduced to us as children or in childhood.
And sharing stories which are personal about this.
And of course, it's springtime.
It's part of why the yellow jackets are making their nest.
It's part of why the grass is dead and I could see the owl pellets and everything's flowering.
We've just passed the flower moon in Blackfoot phenological cycles, although to call it phenological
cycles is kind of a weird thing, sorry about that.
Because for, you know, tens of thousands of years, the idea of using the word phenology,
a bizarre, you know, Latinate, pheno, right, form, shape, ology, typology would be ridiculous.
We are now, as of last night, in the, I can't remember the exact Blackfoot word, I can't
remember, but we're in the long rains moon, a time where in their territory, particularly
in, like, Canada, the rains come and a wide range of phenomena occur.
And by the way, I want to encourage any of my listeners who are interested in phenology,
which is the embodied relation with a living place that also engages us to study, but to
study by relation, not by abstraction.
The transformations in relationships and emergence and disappearance of the animals and insects
and plants and their relationships over each moon cycle.
And my dear friend, Ryan Firstdiver, it's one word, you can find him on YouTube.
If you have any interest in phenology, I recommend that you follow him and watch his videos.
He has a video on each of the moon cycles.
And these are, these are pricelessly important because we who have calendars instead of relationships
have forgotten so much of what is important to our humanity.
And by returning, by having the opportunity to learn with someone who has remembered, brought
back to membership, right, some of these really crucial aspects of our way of being human
in the world and how we relate with living places, it's an incredible moment of healing
for those of us who are thus inclined, not everyone is, fair enough.
We each have unique bodies, minds, histories, hopes, desires, fears, futures, dreams, nightmares,
victories, tragedies, and this is often forgotten.
And one of the topics that came up in the discussion I previously had, which might be
a useful starting off place, we'll see how this goes, is, sorry, I keep getting haptic
notifications on my watch, which is very disturbing when I'm trying to make a video, perhaps I
need to turn that off.
I do keep location services off in general, but these devices are very complicated.
We can't be sure that because we've turned something off that it's actually off, right.
In any case, we were talking about me and my interlocutor, who I was having a conversation
with a little while ago, we were talking about norm policing, people telling others what's
normal, what's natural for human beings.
Since the conversation was orbiting sexuality, we were talking about instances where people
online are trying to tell other people how frequently, for example, they should be having
sex.
And I find this behavior crude, clumsy, and largely reprehensible.
And the reason that this is so is that norms represent, although they might represent something
that could be equated with the most common denominator, in other words, the average over
some population or some segment or cultural population, that has nothing to do with what
is good or natural or true or healthy.
And the reason that it has nothing to do, well, maybe nothing to do is a little too
severe.
What I'm trying to say actually is that I'm very cautious, okay, here we're going to
get into some linguistic trouble.
I want to say that I'm very cautious about generalizations.
If I'm paying very close attention, and if you are too, you will notice that me being
very cautious about generalizations, and here's where language becomes really tricky.
That's a generalization.
See the problem there?
Now, I'm not saying I want us to get rid of generalizations.
What I'm instead suggesting is that it's very important if we want to use language
intelligently and in a way that mostly like our relationship with machines, doesn't make
us dumber every time we make a move, doesn't reduce the breadth and scope of our awareness
each time we enact it.
Oh, I just saw a vole trying to cross the path up ahead of me.
One of the reasons why raptors like to hunt in this time is because the nocturnal rodents
come out.
When I say, you can see, when I say I'm very cautious and skeptical about some of the ways
we use generalizations, obviously generalizations are useful, and earlier I said in the conversation
I was like, these look to me to be the consequence of our relationship with language, but then
I realized, no, they can be the consequence of embodied experience as well.
We know, for example, that the spaghetti shouldn't just be mush.
We know if the apple doesn't taste like an apple, norms and normative expectations are
one of the things we use as shorthand to keep us from having to overthink or overattend
with our senses.
And so norms and generalizations can be a useful aspect of our human cognitive behavior.
I'm coming near the place where I made my really bad mistake the other day with the
yellow jackets, and I'm always a little nervous when I get in this part of the gardens now.
I'm going to film that spot this time, hopefully, although again, I'm pretty nervous about it.
The owl pellet that I left there is still there, and I kind of want it, but anyway.
There are a variety of significant errors that we make.
So that's where the yellow jacket nest is, and although you can't see it, the owl pellet
with the skull is right next to that.
In any case, there's a variety of sort of easy mistakes we make using our relatively
intuitive habits of generalizing, so that, for example, if I see...
So I invented a redological fallacy, I think.
It's possible that it already existed.
In fact, it seems likely that it already did, but because I'm not aware of it, and by the
way, if any of you can trace this down for me, I'll appreciate it, I invented a fallacy
that I call the Congregantes pessimis fallacy, and that means group pessimism.
And the way we use this fallacy in common thought language, and particularly in the news, is
to ascribe some usually undesirable behavior that we have observed from some person who
we can imagine to be an exponent of a given population segment or group, a derivable distinction.
We observe some often malignant or negligent or ignorant behavior, and then we just generalize
that from the individual instance to all members of a population.
It's hard to give an example that isn't going to get me in trouble.
But let's say that I see a dog grab some kid's hot wheel car and bury it.
And then I decide, dogs are thieves.
Now I'm using an animal on purpose, because if I use any human example, I can easily get
in trouble, and I don't have time, I'm sort of improvising, I don't have time to carefully
select, so I'm using a non-human example to illustrate my point.
But we, many of us who, you know, us language-using humans, us news-reading and news-exposed
and culture-exposed humans, we are trained to think that, for example, males are dominant.
It's not entirely untrue, it's just insufficiently true.
And when we extend this categorical observation, if we believe it too much or we extend it
too far, it blinds us.
And most of the time, that's what we do with generalizations.
Generalizations, and again, I'm generalizing here when I say, alright, I'm generalizing
about generalizations that I'm concerned about.
Notice how complex and confusing this is.
Many of us might be able to notice the first-order problem, which is that generalizations can
be deceptive, not so many of us, but a few of us, particularly those who are linguistically
and philosophically trained.
And some people who just have a really good intuition or are bright, not many of us would
notice the second-order problem, which is that that itself is a generalization.
So if I say, for example, I don't like absolutes, same problem.
Now I tend to be cautious enough to leave some incompleteness in my assertion.
So instead of saying generalizations are bad, which is a generalization, I'll say I'm skeptical,
I'm suspicious of generalizations, but with absolutes, I'm more suspicious.
It's very uncommon in our relationships with abstraction, with ideas, with knowledge, with
theories, with concepts, with categories, that absolutes are justified.
There are very simple cases where they can be.
For example, if somebody accidentally steps on my foot and I say, it is true that you
just stepped on my foot, that's pretty absolutely true.
If I say, for example, you who are listening to me are not now standing beside me, that's
pretty absolutely true.
It's not perfectly absolutely true, but it's true enough for me to go like, okay, let's
do the absolute thing and say, that's true.
But with complex things and with abstract things, with knowledge, with language, we
have to be really careful because it's easy to deceive ourselves.
The tools turn us into their likeness if we're not aware of this.
So this policing of normative behavior, which is something, a number of very intelligent
people, not all of whom are perfect.
I'm not particularly, I enjoy listening, for example, to Jordan Peterson.
It doesn't mean I believe everything that he says or that I think he's the best thing
to happen to some segment of the intellectual population since some other thing that happened
to some other segment.
He's not like the best thing since sliced bread, but there's aspects of his presentation
and his mind that are edifying.
They're enriching, I feel nourished.
And there's other things he says where I'm just like, how did you come up with that guy?
I can't buy that.
So we don't have to, and this is another problem.
We think that either people are either good or they're bad.
No, actually it's much more sophisticated than that.
And your experience of people will depend to a great deal on the purposes that underlie
your encountering them.
And if you start out with the idea that you're going to judge them, well, you're going to
get what you went looking for.
And it's the same thing with normative generalizations.
And by normative, I mean generalizations that assert that one or some other thing is normal.
And it's not that such things are, again, the purpose matters a lot.
And if the purpose is to police our fellow humans and try to rigidly normify them like
the kind of torture that happens to most of us in elementary school and high school
when what should be happening is that our uniqueness and the unique gifts that we bring
to human birth and thought and learning and play and creativity should be nourished and
enriched and recognized and rewarded and that we should be reassured that our uniqueness
as a human being and as a mind and as a heart and as a soul is valuable and noble and good
and true.
In our modern circumstance as the body of common, sort of the common people, and I'm getting
