So I've been thinking a little bit about thinking, and I've been thinking a lot about everything.
Which sounds confusing, but it can be at times.
But sometimes when I just talk, even if there's nobody listening, or nobody else listening when I'm talking,
I can learn almost as if I'm talking with someone because when I have to speak,
I have to put words quickly to improvise language about a topic.
What ends up happening is that if I do it well, I learn a great deal in the process.
So what I'm going to do right now is just talk a little bit about what I've been thinking just in the past few moments.
I was thinking about the difference between what most of us have, which are jobs,
and what we might like to have.
What I think perhaps we were born to have, if I can be bold enough to make statements for everybody.
A fairly silly thing to do unless you're pretty sure of yourself, but in this case I am.
I think what we would like to have is rules.
And here's why I think that we love to read stories.
And we, as a people all over the world, all of the moderns anyway, they love to watch movies.
And actually even people who are indigenous or close to indigenous that I know,
I guess there aren't really any such people.
Let me say that a different way.
People who identify as indigenous like movies, which is interesting to me,
because when I was having the kinds of experiences that really deeply connected me to myself and to nature,
movies weren't that interesting, but my life was way more interesting.
So going to a movie would be more like going to the bathroom than going to a party.
That makes any sense.
I would have interesting responses, but it was only because everything was interesting.
A movie was also interesting.
I could learn lots about what the culture was thinking and stuff like that.
That isn't really my point.
My point is this.
We really love stories and we love them too much.
We love them way too much.
In fact, a movie like Avatar, for example, which presents some very compelling fictional roles and hyperboleys,
which many of our favorite stories are based on, hyperboleys, that is gross exaggerations,
was wildly popular film.
I don't think too many of the people that watched it realized that making the film, supporting the film,
producing the film, distributing the film, all the people driving around to watch it and paying for it
and working to pay for it and all the things we had to do to watch it,
all the things we had to move and store and back up and build and transport,
all of that stuff we did to make and watch that film,
all the money we spent and are still spending, all the toys and books and little things we made,
all that effort was spent against us and against the virtues and the promises
and the visions of the film itself.
Ironically, in other words, nothing attacks nature like a blockbuster film.
So a blockbuster film about saving nature is like using the fact that we can tell a story to kill
in a very ironic and lethally poisonous way where everyone thinks it's a celebration.
It's a celebration of what's being assassinated by celebrating it that way.
And this is part of the difference between a job and a role.
So in a job, you're sort of told what to do and you're given a framework to live in and be
and you're serving to reinforce a system that's oppressing you, not just you,
but it's oppressing distance to others all over the world
and it's not just them, it's oppressing living beings in every place on earth and even to the future.
That's a real problem.
Oppressing all living beings.
I know it sounds bizarre but it's actually true.
The way that we do business in the modern world is destroying every living thing on earth all at once,
not like in little pieces or here and there.
No, it's filled, for example, every organismal, every animal body on earth
and probably every plant body with deadly toxins, actually.
You can learn about this yourself, your body's full of them.
And they disrupt all of the biological processes that life and evolution both,
not just life but evolution, that's the important one, depend upon
so that we're not just destroying ourselves now, we're programming a series of unpredictable destructions in the future.
This is what we've been doing now for quite some time.
This is the result of a job, having a job.
This is what jobs are supporting pretty much no matter what we may otherwise think
because if we're in any way participating in the culture, paying taxes, etc., voting,
then we are, you know, we're signing up for an incredibly ironic and ugly departure.
The role, on the other hand, is what we go to worship in the stories.
Isn't that interesting?
So instead of having roles and becoming real people together
and having a culture that is, in fact, heroic and beautiful and true,
like the one, like what we were promised in, for example, America,
probably the Soviet Union and probably China and probably Japan, many other nations, right?
A culture that is, instead of having a culture that is actually a group of heroes,
learning to be amazing and beautiful and human and alive together
with and for all of the other groups and for our children and our world.
Instead of doing that, we're doing the opposite, but we're making the movie.
And boy does it sell.
Oh, this movie sells like nobody's business.
It's being sold everywhere you look.
And the farther away our lives move from anything like roles that are inhabitable
and roles that are true to our natures and the promise of our birth,
which is so profound that if you took all the stories and all the religions
and put them together, the promise of our birth would stand like Mount Everest
next to the grain of sand, those stories are.
And of course, in this case, it wouldn't be sand.
Because sand is a beautiful and natural thing.
It would be like a chunk of a broken machine or garbage, that little tiny thing.
But the mountain would be a real mountain, a living mountain.
Because that's the difference between the potential that is born in us
and the ones that are religions and our cultures sell us.
And so one of the interesting things about a role, and we see what a role means in films,
or if I'm fortunate I don't have to refer to films,
because this is the only way you're going to understand me, or stories.
A role is a thing like Frodo in The Lord of the Rings.
A role is where you actually live your life as a being,
struggling with the fundamental nature of existence
and the forces that your birth both brought together and brought you here to transform.
And that's what you came to do.
I don't know the exact shape of it, no one does.
You can discover it, only you can discover it.
But I know a few things about this strange idea.
I know, for example, that you have powers.
I don't want to call them supernatural, but if you were to experience them,
you certainly would think they are, that go beyond the sum of our stories
and beyond the sum of our religions.
And I don't want to tempt you with them, because that would be fatal.
In fact, the powers are about as interesting as your shoes really.
You wouldn't want to get too fascinated with your shoes,
for reasons you can well imagine there, meant to carry you somewhere,
not to show off with or to get fascinated with.
But you have powers inside you you've never imagined,
and you're being sold garbage copies in the New Age market
and on television and in books and by coaches and hypnotists and in religion.
That's way, way less than what you could bring.
In fact, if you brought forth even half of the role that you came here to play,
instead of having to have a job or a business,
you would have the power to change a nation in a week,
because every human child does.
So I'd like you to think very carefully about the difference between a job and a role.
And I also want you to look now with me at the people that the culture lifts up above us,
as examples that we would like to think of as people who have roles.
And these are people like Gurus, Osho, Nekertali, Pachopra.
Not that these people, I named a bunch of men by example,
unfortunately Oprah is a well-known feminine purveyor of roles,
and then supposedly role models.
Perhaps the president's wife.
But of course, forgive me for not being on my feet about some of the women.
But I think it's because a lot of the women are professional psychics,
or they appear as spiritual leaders,
but for the women, they tend to be mediums and channels and coaches and things like this,
and I'm just not quite as familiar with their names.
But my point is, let's look at some of the famous people,
and also of course, we've got actors, sports figures, rock stars,
or shall we say music stars, film stars of any kind,
authors are kind of heroes,
and they're a little closer to the ideal too in some ways,
because they are actually trying to transform the culture in a secret fashion.
It's pretty powerful.
Music could be, but it's mostly co-opted, so it doesn't turn out to be.
Film could be, but it's mostly co-opted, so it doesn't turn out to be.
But back to this point, all of our role models that are lifted above us,
that they're supposed to show us or help us to find aren't succeeding.
They haven't produced one individual,
and they do not represent such an individual.
They haven't produced one individual with even a tenth of the powers that they were born with,
and the freedom from culture, listen to that last part,
is necessary to activate them, to discover them.
In other words, you kind of have to get near the edge or outside of human culture
to have any real chance of discovering what your role might be
or what your opportunities to have one look like.
Because inside of human culture what you're going to get is a job,
and that's what most of these people, who are teachers, so to speak,
who are role models, are showing us.
If you get a really good job, you'll be paying lots and lots of money.
Well, that's the representation of something none of us have ever seen,
which is that if you get a really good role,
and I don't mean get by,
by being hired, I mean,
if you invent, inwardly vent, a really fantastic role,
you're going to receive something so astonishing
that you're going to understand what money is the representation of,
and there's no way I can explain what that is.
Now, here's the really interesting thing about this whole process.
No one knows anything about it that's useful, except that it's real.
So, no one can tell you what your role is,
or what the other worlds that you can participate in are like,
or any of those things, and anyone who does is probably,
they probably have a job, and they might want you to have a job with them.
Because what's actually going on is so astonishing
that the moment you make a story of it, you've ruined your chance to see it.
And even what I just said is dangerous for that reason.
But at least I'm slightly aware of that fact.
So, most of what we have in our culture is jobs,
and even our role models are actually people who just have jobs, right?
And they're not really the kind of,
they don't come from outside the culture
returning with these amazing opportunities and gifts and assets
and ways of relating and seeing and learning and becoming together
that come from people who have traveled way beyond human culture,
examined it from outside, and seen what's on the other side,
whatever that may be for them, and come back.
Unfortunately, most of the people who do that get jobs,
and then they have to sell us a picture of that process,
which unfortunately any picture you make of it is a lie.
You should say that up front if you're going to do that,
because every person is so unique and so unbelievably, strangely, beautifully,
perfectly profound that you can't make a model for everybody else.
And even the one I'm making here is a little dangerous for that reason.
And if you're trying to sell someone some kind of a model,
or tell them that they're psychic, or tell them that they can heal people,
or even things that we know are relatively objective, like hypnosis,
which is a real thing, you can do it.
You're sort of inventing a cage again, and you're trying to sell something.
And once you do that, you're not exactly in a role anymore.
Although there are some kinds of roles that involve storytelling.
That's true. I haven't had any one of them now.
So what I want you to see is that a role is something you were born with.
You came here with one.
And really it's not so much that you need to get one as retrieve that sense in you
from within you, from your birth.
And since we are in fact all of our ages, not just one of them,
