we are all the ages we have ever been,
and we are even all of the ages we have ever been in many different ways,
that whole process is still inside you like a seed.
And culture's job is basically to shut down and co-opt the urgency
that you feel about this process, about why you're not able to have a role.
And you secretly know this every time you feel that rush of elation and ecstasy
and the profusion of power that comes when you see heroes doing what you know
you can do more than in stories and films.
And it's so confusing to see these images of heroes doing what we know
we can be much more than, but we never get anywhere near being that.
We kept getting sold the story over and over again,
and we keep coming back for more, but we never get to be that.
And why is that? And that must change.
We must change that together, come hell or high water,
because the representations we're being sold are a theft.
They're an egregious theft, and they're not just a theft from us.
They steal everything that is true and good and human and beautiful,
and not just from us from the future.
Everything.
We cannot live this way. We must have roles, not jobs.
And if we are to have jobs, then the roles must come first and the jobs second,
at the very best, much like a certain kind of thinking must come first
and another kind second.
In the same way that we've got this backwards in our cultures,
we've got this backwards in our lives.
And unfortunately for most adults, we've never seen this other kind of thinking.
And most of what we've been sold about are fairy tales and science,
and neither of them are anyone near it.
They're nowhere near it.
Fairy tales remember something we have no idea what they're talking about.
And science is the peculiar prosthesis of the other side of the mind.
It's not going to reveal to us what we need to know.
And the people who think, oh, if you just bring these together,
everything will be great. They're grossly mistaken.
You don't bring teenagers having sex into the surgical theater,
and think that if you just manage that, then everything would be just fine.
That's a ridiculous idea.
And that's the essentially same idea of trying to merge science
with our incredibly crude and primitive ideas about metaphysics
that are commonly popular in our time.
So again, what I'm trying to say here is the difference between roles and jobs.
Born with roles, given jobs.
We ache, then, all through our lives for roles.
And we're going to have crises where we come right up against the opportunity and the difference.
So we're going to have crises where we feel the strain of all of this,
but we can't speak it.
There's no way to say this unless someone has sort of said these words
or helped you say them before, unless you can discover them in yourself,
which is challenging.
We're going to have crises, and during these crises,
what's happening is that seed inside you is shimmering.
It could crack, and that crack could be very dangerous,
because if you don't know this, what you could end up with is what I'll call an emergence crisis.
You're trying to emerge while the culture is shutting you down, medicating you.
And you've also been trapped in such a way that the emergence attempt
is probably not very well funded in terms of the resources it needs to succeed,
either extrinsically or internally.
And so these emergence events are likely to go haywire and turn into psychosis, paranoia,
extreme mania, extreme despair, depression, and all of these things.
A lot of this has to do with the fact that we're trying to be born,
and the process has no support.
And even if it did, what is trying to be born has been so inhibited throughout our lifetime
and so punished and amputated and tortured
that it's really hard for it to have any kind of a reasonable emergence.
It's not impossible. We can help each other probably discover how to do it again.
I think we would be very surprised at what that process might look like.
I don't think it would look much like we imagined it that much.
So what happens is we come up against this conflict over and over again.
This is part of what we see when people pull a gun and go out in public and kill a bunch of people.
They have realized that they've been trapped in a job,
and they're trying to be crushed into something that isn't a role.
So they're sort of in desperation somehow.
All of these feelings are happening during an emergence event.
They realize like the whole world is the enemy,
and if they're not going to give me any role,
then I'm going to take the role of the teacher-villain signal,
and they just go out and make a huge signal.
Finally, they have gotten what is unfortunately the dark polarity of the role.
They've gotten what is left over, which is of course what creates crime.
Also, this is a vast source of crime, is that we need roles,
and instead we have jobs, and jobs don't really work for a lot of us.
They work for other people.
By the way, I have a job, and the job has been very difficult.
Having a job has been a constant part of my life, and a very, very difficult one.
A cruel, ambitious one that punished me for working and paying to work.
And still does.
But anyway, we can see that people who fail to emerge might grab on the roles that we are confused about.
The reason is they were given no opportunity to have roles,
and they were injured and tortured as children like most of us were by the culture,
even if we don't think so, is because the basic features of the culture deny everything I'm saying,
and they have to survive.
If any of us had roles, our cultures wouldn't make it.
Our religions would not make it.
The structures of power and authority, authority over what stuff is, what it means,
those would not survive us getting roles.
In fact, people with roles come to transform the culture,
and they come from outside in.
They may start within, but then they go outside, and they come back in.
So this is why authors can be this way.
It doesn't mean they are, but if they're really, really powerful,
and if they're doing something really true,
and not just trying to sell a story to role hungry, role starved, role deprived human beings,
then they'll give people back the sense in the story, right, that this isn't a story.
This is about you.
This is about an invitation.
This is about a set of signals that are calling you to remember.
To remember things so powerful that if we started to remember them again,
we wouldn't be able to sell movies.
Can you imagine that?
Can you imagine being so excited about our own lives and each other
that it'd be really hard to drag us to a film ever,
and that our children would be similar?
Because we've forgotten what is being represented on those screens,
and why it is so fascinating.
It's something inside us,
and the more we watch it on the screen,
the more it's driven from our lives.
And once we begin to recognize this,
we will have one of the keys to changing it,
and to learn how to discover and support roles for each other.
Heroic roles instead of jobs.
Not because the world needs saving,
or because there's some dogma, although the world does need saving, frankly.
But because what we're doing now is not like ourselves,
so let's discover what that is together in a way that is open,
intelligent, creative, playful, true to nature, our nature,
and all that we can know and become.
If we're doing anything else,
we're doing too much work for the wrong outcome.
And people say, like, well, that's impossible.
You can't change the world overnight.
They're out of their minds.
You can change the world in a heartbeat.
The whole world is aching to change,
and if it doesn't change overnight, it's going to die.
That's exactly when you can change the world overnight,
with nothing more than a story that helps us remember
and understand our real opportunities, our real obligations,
and our actual responsibilities, and let's face it,
they're a lot more serious and beautiful
than we've been willing to think yet.
So let's think and act a little differently together today.
From now on, in everything we do, I will, will you?
If you can just say yes, that's a beginning.
Let's do it. I'm with you.
