Hello everybody.
Those of you who watch my videos regularly, some of you may have noticed that there's
a mechanical flaw in this smartphone that I use to make videos outside.
So what you'll see every once in a while is an anomaly.
You'll see a flash.
And my guess as a technician is that the cause of that anomaly is a short circuit.
And that every once in a while, when pressure changes on the case of the phone,
front to back most likely, that little short circuit is triggered.
And an anomaly occurs.
And this is the kind of thing I generally find quite disturbing.
And these are the kinds of things I generally don't find quite disturbing.
Because I'm a technician and, well, that's not really true.
What I actually am is a mystery.
And there isn't anyone alive or dead, especially since dead people can't talk, or at least
they can't talk to me most of the time.
Though they might speak as me.
There isn't anyone who can perfectly disambiguate the mystery I am, or you are.
Or even the mystery that some organ in our body comprises like our eyes, which are truly
astonishing developments, or the mystery of what's going on, presuming that there is
something going on, and that it's not actually just nothing going on very profusely.
This is a not entirely uncommon suggestion, or at least one way of framing the suggestion,
underlying many mystical traditions.
But nothing is going on in an incredibly profound layered constellation of ways.
When I say I'm a technician, what I mean is that I have adopted the role of a technician,
and I've adopted that role in a specific domain of my humanity, the domain of vacation.
And those who are listening carefully might suppose that perhaps I am at this moment intoxicated,
but something like the opposite is true.
I've just finished sitting Zazen at a pond, the one that I showed you a little while ago.
It's a nice place.
And during my sit, I had various thoughts, various thoughts arose, as they often do.
And in Zen meditation, we are trained not to sort of pay too much attention to thoughts.
There are various ways of attempting to very crudely frame in language what one is doing
in Zen meditation, but essentially the goal is to sink into deep into the sort of roots
of one's being, allow thoughts to rise and depart, no attempt to suppress them, focus
your attention on the gentle arising and departure of your breathing, and kind of sink down into
the self.
If your eyes sort of half open, don't pay any attention to what you see.
Notice body sensations, but do not focus upon them, this kind of thing.
And as I was sitting, I imagined, as I occasionally have, what might be required for me to actually
experience Satori, or awakening to the true nature of my mind, or cutting off the mind
road, or cutting through mind, and I thought, well, maybe something really, really undesirable
might be necessary for me.
Maybe like getting stung by a yellow jacket, for example.
And I saw a yellow jacket hovering near where I sat down after reciting the Great Heart
Sutra and the Four Valves, and I sat down again to sit.
And I didn't want to experience something really terrible, I don't want to experience
something really terrible.
Everything itself can be quite difficult, though when one is used to doing it, most
of the time it comes fairly easily, and it's not particularly troubling.
If one is in pain, or something else is going on, or one's mind is very agitated, it's not
usually a lot of fun to sit quietly doing nothing, essentially, except following one's
breath with one's attention.
Sometimes I would rather be engaged in some activity that produces the illusion that I'm
getting somewhere, accomplishing something.
Once I sat today, there was an anomaly.
I began to have a terrible itch right here, and I tried to think for a moment, even though
I'm aware that while sitting one doesn't pursue thoughts, or, you know, necessarily pursue
sensations.
I tried to imagine what could be producing such an incredible itch right here.
And various ideas came to my mind, I thought, you know, is there some tiny insect burrowing
into my forehead, into my eyebrow?
Such an ironic, really ironic thing here.
This is another anomaly.
I don't know exactly what this is, and I'm not going to pick it up, but the idea that
a plastic container like this is ecological seems to me very bizarre.
And I'm sure one of those little symbols means, you know, it degrades appropriately in nature,
but I'm just incredibly skeptical.
But over here it says eco lips.
And that's sort of a play on eclipse.
I just really doubt it.
I was coming over here because I want to show my viewers a particular plant that produces
an astonishing seed pod.
Oh, wow, there's little life forms in here.
What are they?
Oh, my goodness, it's baby locusts.
Right?
There are little baby locusts all through here.
And they're just in this one area, and there's a lot of them.
Right?
If I just move some grass around, I can see them, though most of them have departed from
the immediate area.
I'm going to be careful not to step on them, but yeah, you can see the grass is just sort
of popping and mongling around.
There's all these little baby grasshoppers.
And these are an anomaly, because A, I've never seen them here before, and B, had I
not wanted to come over to show you this very particular organism that I do not know what
it is, but I find it quite fascinating.
This guy right here, I have a wonderful photograph of one of these.
I have no idea what it is.
I mean, and by that I mean, because I sort of have some vague idea of what all this stuff
is, like living beings, and I understand the categories of plant, insect, animal.
But what I am saying when I say I don't know what this is, is that I don't understand
what we call it, which has nothing to do with what it is.
Right?
Or very little, anyway.
But it's just an incredible thing.
I mean, it's an incredible organism.
And had I not wanted to show you that, I wouldn't have discovered that this area is fraught
with little jumping baby, well, with little grasshopper nymphs or locust nymphs.
I've actually never seen locust nymphs in here at all.
I think a couple of times I've seen locusts.
So yeah, I was sitting and I was having a really incredible itch right here.
And I don't know if you've ever tried to not scratch an itch that really just keeps itching
harder the more you don't scratch it, though you might have had some other experience like
maybe you've quit smoking or you've been chased when you were previously habitually
not having regular orgasms with or without others.
Or maybe you were an alcoholic and you stopped drinking or maybe you were a heroin addict
or addicted to weed or addicted to eating food and then you just stopped and you could
feel that sort of very powerful, gravitic pull behaviorally toward a habitual source
of relief or displacement.
And when we're sitting zazen, there are some guidelines.
And one of them is don't get up, finish sitting the period and don't pay attention to little
things like itches or pain or you can pay attention to them, but don't react to them.
And I continue to focus on, return your awareness to your breath, return your awareness to the
co-on if you're sitting with a co-on and so on.
And so I sat there and the itch became worse and worse and I continued to follow my breathing
and pay attention to the co-on.
And I successfully avoided scratching the itch and as it almost always does, by the
time I was done with the session, the little period, the itch was gone, the anomaly had
disappeared.
Now I've occasionally had a little itch right here lately and I don't know why.
It's a mystery.
But of course, when I got up, soon after bowing and sort of finishing sitting, I rubbed my
eyebrow and it felt really good even though the itch had long departed.
And was there anything there or was it some peculiar form of nothing?
Was it something particular?
What was it?
What am I?
What is this?
What's going on around here?
Who's going on around here?
Why is all this beautiful, exquisite nature going on and why are there humans building
all kinds of really bizarre machines and boxes and shit instead?
I mean, that stuff is ugly as fuck.
No, it's much uglier than fuck.
It's just wrong somehow to me.
But my point really is more about mystery because what's actually going on around here
is fundamentally mysterious.
And I mean the sort of punny version of that word where we focus on the damentally.
And even the fun.
Fun damentally, mysterious.
Last night when I came home, I turned on my computer which has an LCD screen.
It's very advanced even though it's now a number of years old.
And I could see crawling around on my computer a very, very tiny insect.
And I realized from the shape of the insect, being someone who's fascinated by insects,
it was either some form of mite or it was a very tiny, extremely tiny tick larva.
So I didn't want it to get away.
It was just so funny.
I did not wish it to receive a path and not wish it to get away.
I'm just scooping around.
So I tried to conceive of a method.
It could move relatively quickly for such a tiny thing.
And when I say tiny, what I mean is perhaps a quarter of the size of a flathead pin that
we might use in sewing to hold fabric together prior to it being hemmed.
So I'm just going to take a little bit of the fabric and I'm just going to take a little bit
of the fabric and I'm just going to take a little bit of the fabric and I'm just going
to take a little bit of the fabric.
I'm going slow so that the robin doesn't have to fly away in order to avoid me.
Because we're kind of taking a little walk together.
So I tried to come up with a method whereby I could reliably obtain this creature, capture
it, and I know of a variety of methods.
But I decided to settle on using a sheet of paper in an attempt to cause it to fall onto
the sheet of paper off of the monitor.
It was at that point that I realized that this very tiny and relatively troubling anomaly
wasn't on the surface of the monitor.
But was somehow between the display and the glass surface that separates the display inside
the case from the surface of the glass.
And that caused me to wonder if perhaps what I was seeing wasn't an organism at all, but
was instead a piece of code that I was seeing.
Was I possibly seeing code, a virus or a piece of malware or a little program that was intended
to deceive me into believing there was an insect on my computer?
And then it took a shit, a very, very tiny shit because if you can imagine how incredibly
minute that poop was, but I saw it happen.
I have various magnifying glasses and loops and little hand-held microscopes and so on.
I couldn't get it under the microscope, which would have been cool, but I did get a good
look at it with the magnifying glass, a number of them, and it was quite clear to me that
I was looking at an actual organism, not, in fact, an algorithm.
Some people, perhaps Richard Dawkins and other people, similar to him, will suggest that
organisms and algorithms are a very similar phenomenon, and I will suggest that they are
catastrophically mistaken.
For a number of reasons, not the least of which being that, sorry, I've got some, from
my little traipsing in the grass, I've acquired some hitchhikers, in this case, seeds that
are poking my ankle.
This one really doesn't want to come out.
I may have to bear with it, and you with me.
So there was another anomaly, and a rather troubling one because I wanted to know where
does, how is it, first of all, mites are apparently not visible from the naked eye, which means
that everything, as far as I could tell, everything that looks like a mite is probably a tick.
And I wondered why, at all kinds of questions, why would a baby tick be inside my computer?
Are there ticks in my house, you know, all these kinds of questions, right?
But there wasn't anything I could do about the tick, and I wanted to be careful not to
squash it, because otherwise it would become a permanent fixture on my monitor.
And one of the bizarre, one of the queer, not in the sense that's usually used sexually,
but in the sense of peculiar, one of the queer aspects of my persona is that I'm something
of a perfectionist, and this is part of why I ended up becoming a technician.
It was because I was a little bit anal about ensuring my computers were functioning perfectly.
If only I had been as concerned about my intelligence or the physical health of my body, things
might have turned out very differently in my life.
But I became a technician, and for a long time I made a really good living at it.
These days, not so much.
