Now, yesterday I was on a phone call, and yes, I am going somewhere, however, circuitous
my route.
I think in British English they say route.
I wonder if those might be the plant that my friend Ryan was referring to as bachelor's
buttons.
I'm not sure.
There's a lot of hummingbirds here, and I love them.
They're amazing.
I also love bats and martens, and I kind of think of martens as the bats of the daytime
and swallows because they're similarly acrobatic, and it just occurs to me for the first time
in my life just now that perhaps bat is short for acrobat, because if you've ever watched
bats closely in flight, you'll be aware that their capacity for incredible, oh, there's
a marten, for incredible feats of aerial acrobatics with unimaginable precision is profound.
I'm at the frog pond hoping to hear some plops, the plops of frogs attempting to evade
me and hearing my steps on the little wooden bridge.
So far no evidence.
This is parrotweed, apparently, a common supposedly invasive form of vegetation that is often
the result of having someone emptying an aquarium into a pond.
This parrotweed has been here for a very long time and is sometimes cleared out and almost
always grows back.
No plops today.
I am sure there are frogs there, though.
That's the main pool in which there are frogs in the park.
There were a couple of other anomalies yesterday.
I was on the phone with a friend painting an analogy that I call the genji lamp, which
is a toy I learned when something that I think of as an angel was teaching me long ago
for a number of months.
One of the most ecstatic, perhaps the most ecstatic, time and experience of my life,
and an extremely anomalous one.
And there were a number of very significant anomalies that happened that led up to that
experience, anomalies that occurred in the pre-penumbra, in the pre-dawn light of this
really profound mystery.
But yesterday I saw a beetle during this phone call walking quickly along the ground
and it was dragging something behind it that at first glance I thought might be its own
guts.
I thought, I've seen things like this before where a creature is badly injured and it's
dragging its own entrails after itself.
So I took a few photos of that for later.
I'd love to be able to emulate the sounds of birds.
Wow.
Such a powerful sound.
I got lucky there.
Here's the yellow jacket nest I inadvertently stood right on top of the other day.
Turned out what the beetle was dragging along behind itself wasn't its entrails, thankfully.
And this is, though I'm meandering, you're going to find an interesting thread if you
show my trail here.
It was dragging its own molt.
So insects have exoskeletons and many of them molt and when they do so they often are very
vulnerable for a short period of time, hopefully short, although sometimes as long as 24 to
24 hours they're still and they break out of their skeleton, their external skeleton
and then you'll see the molt, for example, of the Mayfly or Damselfly larva or Dragonfly
or you'll see the chrysalis of a caterpillar or you'll see the fluffy cocoon of a moth.
They, you know, you'll see the shed skin of a snake or perhaps a lizard.
So what the beetle was dragging, the beetle was fine.
It had molted and actually I could tell it was really healthy when I looked at it.
So even though I was concerned that it might be dragging its own entrails around, it seemed
pretty unlikely because the thing just looked extremely vital to me.
And I determined later that what it was dragging around was its molt and that the molt hadn't
fully separated from the end of its abdomen, which of course it will do in time.
However, the beetle is a little more vulnerable dragging its molt around with it.
And one of the great mysteries of humanity is that it is my perspective and my experience
that we also undergo something like molt phases.
There are a number of life phases for the human being.
We each undergo them.
There might be multiple ways to molt as human beings, but most of them are internal even though
we recognize the difference between an infant, a child, a teenager, a young adult, an adult,
a middle-aged person, a person achieving old age, and a very elderly person.
But I think there is another aspect to our humanity and perhaps to other living beings,
an interior aspect that also undergoes molting, and this is a great mystery.
This is an incredible mystery.
But that wasn't enough yesterday because moments after photographing the beetle, a coyote came down
the hill and walked directly toward me as though it was going to walk right up to me.
I'm just standing there watching it and I'm thinking, is this coyote actually going to walk directly up to me?
And I guess maybe, I mean, you know, reasonable ways away from me, but for a while I was starting to get a little confused
because I thought it's not likely that coyotes are going to just walk right up to me in daylight.
And I know the coyote was coming down from its den because I was up on the side of the mountain
where I know there are coyote dens.
And coyotes would certainly, I think, prefer to be creatures that are associated with a pack
rather than lone urban coyotes, but I think have a bit of a harder time.
Packs can distribute risk and opportunity among the members in ways much like my hand has a number of fingers, right?
This would not be as useful if it were just a club, right? A one appendage.
So the coyote approached me and I'm fascinated by coyotes and I was looking right at it and I was standing very still
and then eventually it noticed me and sort of veered off and, you know, ran up the hill.
And that wasn't incredibly mysterious because I know that there are coyotes here and yet it's very uncommon
that one essentially, like, looks at me, looks directly at me and is walking directly toward me.
It was a small animal. I wasn't afraid of it.
But I was curious and I was fascinated and I love coyotes so I love to see them. I was happy. I was pleased.
Now, I've been fascinated by anomalies since I was a little child and I realized very quickly that
the stories that the adults told themselves about the world and organisms and life on Earth
and the mysteries of dreaming and waking and consciousness were quite confused.
And in many cases based on ideas that were senseless or overtly wrong.
So, for example, they thought that all dreams were just dreams, not true.
They thought that insects were disposable pests that should be exterminated, extremely untrue,
unless you think the organs of your own body should be exterminated.
They thought that to find life from space you'd have to go to other planets untrue.
All the Earth here is life from space.
This is a planet absolutely teeming with space life because there isn't anywhere else for life to come from.
So if you're interested at all in life in space, you should be very, very interested in terrestrial life
because all of it comes from space.
Earth is a planet in space. All this stuff, these are what the humans want to think,
aren't aliens, but they are.
And particularly the insects and animals and anciently evolved intelligences
from which we derive our own humanity and upon which we thrive on the backs of whom
we've risen to what appears to be a kind of dominance but is very conflicted
and there's another mystery there.
Why would the dominant animal, if there is a dominant animal?
And by dominant we mean certain things, I mean certain things, I mean.
One who has the capacity to both shape and to shape nature to its own ends
and to control it and examine it and rationally understand aspects of its activity
and organismal nature and origin, biology, all these things.
So from a very young age I realized the adults were quite confused
but I also felt many strange longings and urges
for which I found no answer or correlate in human culture.
I still do.
And so I became a student of living beings
and I knelt before the ant, I knelt before the paramecium, the amoeba, the protozoa,
the snail, the slug, the frog the toad, the lizard the snake, the blue jay, the bee, the wasp,
the beetle, the sow bug, the caterpillar, the butterfly, the dragonfly, the moth.
And when I say I knelt, what I mean is I looked up to them instead of overlooking them.
I developed the intention to understand life rather than to overstand it.
And however imperfectly I practiced that intention,
thoroughly encouraged and punished by the culture and people around me for doing so,
encouraged by their ignorance and punished by their strange desire for conformity,
I continued to pay very close attention to anomalies.
And as a very young man, I read books like Future Shock, Chariots of the Gods.
There was an author named Colby who worked for the military, who wrote lots of books in the library.
And I was fascinated by technology and the possibility of a technological utopia,
which was a common fairy tale when I was a youth.
And I was fascinated by automobiles and jets and missiles and rockets and spaceflight and science fiction and bombs and...
the human technological imperative seemed to me a stairway to utopia.
So you can imagine how confused I was when at last it finally dawned on me that I had that backwards.
And I think it was around the time that I started really studying computers that I began to realize,
like I think we got something wrong going on here, but I'll return to that.
Though I'll mention in case I don't that what I immediately realized was that organisms outperform computers
in ways we are ill-equipped to completely penetrate and probably will remain that way forever.
Maybe I'm just singing the song of my hope.
In any case, when I was little, it was as if I had come to human life from another age.
From an ancient age in which things like butter knives and forks and zippers and hams
and shoes and televisions and telephones and wristwatches and automobiles and guns
and latches and screws and drills and all these things were impossible
because I could not make any of those things.
I couldn't make the simplest thing in our home.
I couldn't make a button.
So where, I wondered, did all these things come from?
And of course back then I didn't even know where meat came from.
Or really what it was. We just ate it.
It tasted good.
I remember when my mom tried to explain to me where meat came from, I thoroughly did not believe her.
I had to go to the butcher, right?
Snuck away from my mom at the grocery store.
Went to the butcher who was kind of my friend, right?
He would give me a hot dog, a cold hot dog every time we saw him.
And he liked my mom.
My mom was very beautiful.
Lots of guys liked her.
And I didn't know what that was about.
I just thought like people were friendly.
I didn't realize the guys weren't just being friendly.
They really liked my mom.
So I went to the grocery store and I asked the butcher about what my mother had told me.
I asked the butcher where the meat came from.
And the reason I didn't believe my mom wasn't because she was habitually lying to me.
But sometimes she would sort of play with me, right?
I remember when she told me that Y-O-U spells you.
Same problem I thought like you're just making that shit up.
That's not possible.
You adults are crazy in the head about language.
And what I heard was Y-O as you know in the Shakespearean O, right?
Y-O-U.
Like I heard a question in the spelling of a word.
Y-O-U.
So I couldn't believe her.
And there was an anomaly.
The butcher told me where the meat came from.
And I was inconsolable.
But I was also addicted already.
Not just to meat, but to the ceremonial ritual of dining with my family.
Something I then could not abstract from experience because it was so embedded that I couldn't take it apart, right?
And say this is this or that.
But when I was little, I thought there was actually some other species of humans that made the things.
Because you can't make a wristwatch.
There was one of those flashes. Did you see it?
You can't make a wristwatch.
I mean, yes, of course today you can buy all the components because they've been manufactured.
But what I mean is it would be extremely difficult to manufacture all those components by hand.
And like a zipper is unimaginably sophisticated and incredibly functional thing.
It just doesn't, it didn't make any sense.
When I was little, it was as if I had come from another age where I still had the memory that these things all around us that we take for granted.
I mean, television? Are you fucking kidding me?
Like, that just doesn't make any sense at all.
How the fuck do you encode signals and radio waves to become pictures somewhere else?
It's insane. I still don't understand it.
And I'm a technician. Like, I know how computers work in theory.
Whether I could assemble one myself, you know, I doubt I could build a hard drive or, you know, RAM chips or ROMs.
But I can code a bit.
So everything around me just seemed impossible.
And I thought, like, where are all the people who make all the things?
And I was a child, so I didn't know that there were factories and, you know, manufacturing plants and they sort of pieced out the functional aspects of producing the parts.
And then there were usually other places where the parts were assembled into holes and so on and so forth.
But this is entirely unlike nature, by the way. Nature does nothing like that.
