I mean, unless we call the parts molecular chemistries, right?
In that case, then different plants and microorganisms and so on and insects and animals and so on and so forth.
We produce complex molecular chemistries and theirs are shared around and it makes shortcuts for everything.
And what you eventually discover is that all of life is like that seed in my sock. It's hitchhiking on each other.
And now you have something really interesting.
Once you notice this anomaly that everything's hitchhiking on each other, you can begin to wonder about the nature of your own consciousness.
And you can wonder, for example, and this is a very dangerous question, because it could lead you to a direct experience of some of the answers and there are more than one.
There's more than one answer.
Are our minds hitchhiking on something so astonishing that we have never conceived of it, even though we have myths about it?
And I'm not going to answer the question for you because that would be cheating.
And even in the answers I could present, there'd be not only a goodly quantity of mystery, they might be almost pure mystery.
I remember some time, a long time ago, when people who trusted my sleuthing abilities, which while not perfect aren't bad,
I remember
someone describing an extremely strange event that happened in their backyard at night with weird noises and things being thrown around and big shadows.
As someone who's been fascinated by anomalies my entire life, and particularly, I'm very, very curious, and I come from way before this was a cult.
Nowadays, it's sort of part of pop culture, but I was extremely curious about UFOs and the possibility of aliens because I had become convinced that my species wasn't actually intelligent.
And as a group, I maintain that bias.
And so what I was hoping was that it might someday be possible for me to meet another species that was actually intelligent.
Now, of course, I recognized that the hymenopterans and, you know, the dog packs and the dolphins and the whales and the octopuses and squid and cuttlefish
and all these creatures, the praying mantises, these are intelligent organisms.
Jumping spiders are curious about human beings, and you can't be curious about giant monsters unless you're intelligent.
In fact, curiosity about giant monsters like humans gets most things killed, so the fact that there's much of that at all in nature is very surprising.
And I think indicative of a mystery.
But back then, so I've studied anomalies and mysteries my entire life, I've been very interested in the things that don't fit expectations.
The outliers, the prodigals, the hermits, the strange ones, the forgotten ones, the outsiders, the real outsiders.
Not the people who put on the t-shirt, the actual stuff.
And that fascination paid off, but it continues to pay off.
Even though most of what I wonder, I still wonder, I just wonder more deeply and from a more informed perspective than I started out with.
But in any case, someone once asked me, and I've experienced relatively extreme anomalies on a number of occasions in my life.
I once saw what people refer to as a fireball, and that was one of the most terrifying and astonishing things ever.
Terrifying because first, at two o'clock in the morning in Stockton, sometime in the early 1980s on a Saturday night,
everything lit up ten times brighter than daylight, and I felt heat on the back of my neck.
And back then, the most reasonable supposition for the cause of such a situation was that a nuclear warhead had gone off.
My friend Ray Latham on the other side of the tree began swearing, inveterately,
and he was looking in the direction from which the phenomenon was affecting us.
And I didn't want to turn around and see a mushroom cloud or something, or just blinding white light.
So I waited, I don't know, what seemed like a long time, I was expecting to die.
I didn't need to see what was going to kill me, I was just like, okay, we're done, it's over, I don't need to know.
But when I finally did turn around, what Ray was observing was a slowly descending ball about the size of a full moon
that seemed partly transparent, light blue, with flames slowly flickering around it in a penumbra, mostly on the top,
slowly, slowly descending with slowly flickering flames.
Not a meteorite, nothing like any phenomenon I've ever seen.
And it was so damn bright that everybody for 50 miles should have been like, holy shh, you know, should have been calling the news stations.
We couldn't find a single person, even people who were out cruising on the avenue at the same time of that night, no one knew.
But four of us saw it together, and we don't know what it was.
It was a fireball, we have a word.
But in any case, someone once asked me a complex question, you know, what do you think they gave me the description of a situation in their backyard late at night?
And I actually had the presence of mind to ask them, did it ever occur to you that some things are inherently mysterious,
and that it might be in some cases wise to just stay with the mystery of the experience or the event and not try to disambiguate it,
not subject it to the courtroom of the category machine, the knives that cut phenomenon into categories so familiar to the grasping hand of the waking mind.
It wants to know what things are and it suspects those identities are inherent in the things rather than its activity.
And I tell you, my friend, if I may call you that, that this is a mistake, this is largely backwards.
It is the activity of the mind that distinguishes, that disambiguates from a cloud-like essential nature in the domain of identity that distinguishes and separates and isolates and categorizes and says what the thing is.
And then once we think we know the what, we can then like collect or dismiss or commodify or negate or excuse or explain or diagram, and we produce a bunch of representational behavior therefrom.
Now, it's not too hard to understand why we want to do something like that, what the utility of it, the pragmatism of it is.
I'm so happy when I'm not in a box staring at a screen, even though I'm staring at a box with a screen in my hand, I'm not in a box staring at a screen.
But it's okay because I'm, you know, we're sharing.
From one perspective, all these life forms are evidence of a great mystery.
My eyes and the capacity to speak, language itself, our entire array of knowledge, the high-pitched chirp of the hummingbird, the unheard noise of infrasound,
the scent of the Brugamencia, the Tura.
I mean, if this doesn't look like space life, nothing does.
All of these are mysteries.
But I've spent my life chasing anomalies, and I'm fascinated by the sciences, perhaps of all of them, biology, microbiology, molecular biology, immunology, neuroscience.
To a lesser degree, chemistry, physics and mathematics, all these things fascinate me.
And I have some familiarity with each of them, although, unfortunately, I never, being self-educated after the age of about 11 or 12,
I never became properly, you know, trained in mathematics, though I made a couple of attempts here and there.
One of which was interrupted by a siren, a young Norwegian woman who declared her insane passion for me and ended my second attempt at mathematical training with my fascination for her.
Of course, I blame her. I made the choice.
But my point is, I didn't pursue math far enough to get to calculus and beyond, which I really needed to do if I were to understand some of the deeper questions in physics,
though I'm capable of approaching many of the questions without having to formalize them explicitly.
But if I had a little wish, a small one, I might wish to be educated enough to understand, at least as clearly as the author, his book, The Road to Reality.
By Roger Sir Roger Penrose.
The sciences fascinate me. Our supercultures and corporations use them to very dangerous and lethal effect.
I hold in my hand at the moment more computing power than probably existed on Earth in 1964. What do we do with this? Incredible endowment.
We use it to be surveilled by corporations for what primary purpose is, too.
The ostensible purpose is advertising. Almost dropped my camera. It's very uncommon that I do that. I called it my camera, too, which is not very common, except I was nervous.
The other purposes are far more nefarious. The purposes of psychography that underlie the capacity to directly control our thought, metabolism, biology, social relationships, intelligence, capacities for nation-making, and so on.
But I remain a student of anomalies. I look for that tiny little feature that hides a hint so often overlooked that it distorted the course of what otherwise might have been prodigious discovery.
Or, perhaps even more profoundly, contact with non-human intelligence.
Now, the ancient peoples had protocols for this, and some very few of those protocols continue to exist today. However, the scientists believe those protocols to be superstitions. How unfortunate for them.
They've overlooked something fundamental about the nature of being itself, the nature of consciousness, the nature of intelligence, and, in fact, the origins of their own disciplines.
They've overlooked communion, unity. They've overlooked the idea that everything is hitchhiking. Everything. And it's not the only metaphor, but it's an awfully fucking good analogy of what's going on.
The remora hitchhikes on the shark, our complex consciousness hitchhikes on the metabolic activity of 40 trillion microbes, the cells that compose our bodies.
One might even imagine that bacteria assembled animals the way humans assemble spacecraft to travel together in super colonies and to develop senses and orders of sensing that were so astonishing compared to what the bacteria had by themselves that they might as well comprise science fiction.
And when I look at this, or this, or this, and these, or this, or even this stuff, I am aware that we might be the accomplished science fiction of our own microbiota. Anomalies are fascinating to me, and they always will be.
But it's also useful rather than chasing an answer to preserve the mystery because there's something fundamentally mysterious about the nature of communion in and as nature.
And when you throw that mystery away, the remnant is deceptive of scientists. So keep the mystery, keep it close to tan, revere it, get to know it, make friends.
My favorite answers are not conclusions. They are reframings of the question I adore that I am chasing through time space in my life and dreaming in my heart and thought in my art and writing in my reverence and adoration in my passion.
The great mystery of being, in which we may participate in ways both unimagined and surprising.
In ways that relieve us of our cynicism and certitude, our overstanding of knowledge.
Whether or not the stories in Genesis emerge from the fact of a divine intelligence within and surrounding and perhaps beyond nature and thought, the idea that knowledge is deadly, pay attention to that hint.
It won't kill you outright. Just as the snake, well, the serpent, it's a much more complex idea. Was there a flash there? Just as the serpent implied, it won't kill you outright.
The serpent was very lawyerly in its interview with the primordial feminine. It won't kill you outright.
But if you're not careful, your soul can suffocate in its armor. So be careful. Make a place for reverence, for adoration, for wonder, for awe, for mystery, for revelation.
And know this. The humans, for all the hubris of our species, what we actually understand, is mostly wrong. Not in the sense of being incorrect within its own axiomatic system.
Within its own axiomatic system, it's correct. That's no great feat. In the sense of representing insight, like the little flashes that happen in my smartphone, when that circuit I know nothing of shorts out briefly under pressure.
Bye bye for now.
