also deprived us of something fundamentally important.
The story of the Tree of Knowledge in the Garden of Eden is a good example, but it's
not the only one, not by a long shot.
Many indigenous stories contain parts of this puzzle, and I believe that the story of each
one of our own unique rise to representational cognition in childhood recapitulates the form
of this story in that, in the beginning, we are with the non-human intelligences or intelligence.
We are with Valles, so to speak, although there's different ways to think of it.
And one of the ways of thinking of it is an angel, but we don't have to be religious to,
this doesn't have to be.
What I mean by angel is not necessarily the kind of thing you would imagine from your
exposure to religious literature, no, not that kind of thing at all.
What I mean by angel is something astonishing, ecstatic, profound, and adoring that is one
of the expressions of the vast active living intelligence system, again, in the same way
that our hand is an expression of our bodies.
And there are various images of this kind of being, none of which are particularly alike
with it.
But one that I find striking is a being that is just formed of wings, many, many different
kinds of wings, and the wings are filled with eyes.
And the eyes are ways of seeing that become ways of travel in the living intelligence
system and both within and outside of time.
From outside of time, if you have a foothold in your mind outside of time, there is no
knowledge that is inaccessible, there is no question that is unanswerable.
Although from that perspective, the questions that are important are entirely different
from those we tend to entertain.
And one of the things that I think my own experience strongly suggests to me is that
our species was originally a symbiotic companion of an array of non-human intelligences, but
perhaps of a specific order within that array.
And so our minds are the children of this lost relationship that still exists.
And without this relationship, I think we would not be able to compose or experience
consciousness as we do, awareness as we do.
And yet the very forms of awareness we commonly experience deprive us of a direct and conscious
relationship with their origin.
There are examples in nature of profound symbiosis.
Organisms that without each other cease to exist.
And all throughout nature, we see examples of awareness of symbiosis in the behavior
of ecologies and organisms.
And although this is not the best example I can think of, it's one that comes easily
to mind, and honestly I'm responsible, I should find a better one.
The bees and the flowers are a pretty good one, right?
The relationship between pollinators and flowers.
And in this case, we would be the flowers and the non-human intelligence that we symbios
with and have forgotten about would be the bees.
But a simpler and somewhat more mechanical relationship, again I don't trust this analogy
very much, but it's functional, is the relationship between a small fish called a remora and sharks.
Remoras cling to the bodies of sharks, they're a small fish, and they can be killed by the
shark accidentally when it's feeding, and they feed on the remnants of things that the
shark is feeding on, little scraps and such.
And the shark transports the remora in ways that would be extremely difficult for the
remora to achieve by itself, in other words, the remora hitchhikes on the shark.
Now again, I don't think this is the best analogy, but I believe that our minds and
our species, we once belonged, we were a psycho-relational symbiont of another order
of intelligence.
And there was a transformation in that relationship that resulted in its loss.
Religions are probably the fossilized remains of what I'm here speaking about.
And perhaps the catastrophically misinterpreted analogies of these lost relationships.
But to be clear, I'm fairly convinced, I'm modestly convinced, or at least it is my
current position, that our capacity to form minds at all depends upon this relationship.
In the same way, your capacity to manipulate something with your hands depends upon your
body and your mind and your organs and so on, right?
So like a person drenched in water they cannot see or detect and dying of thirst, not merely
saltwater, maybe meta-water.
Our minds are starving for the re-establishment of this relationship.
Our hearts, our souls are hungry for the re-establishment of this relationship, and because we are
in this state, we are extremely vulnerable.
We are vulnerable to replacement cons, to addiction, to commerce and commodity and money
and war and prison, disease in the most fundamental sense of dis-ease, whereas in the presence
of the companion, we understand why we are.
There's an ecstatic awareness and adoration and mutual love and care and recognition, but
so profound that nothing in our ordinary experience will, our ordinary experience will very rarely
approach even the slightest resemblance to these things.
And so again, what I would say is something that we consider to be unimaginably profoundly
extreme, something like birth or death or orgasm.
These things, well birth and death, I'm going to shy away from slightly, those things are
so profound that they can be said to approach the intensity of what I'm speaking of.
But the felt sense of being with the intelligences from, or the intelligence from which our mind
arises is so ecstatic that it's, that compared to it, orgasm is like a, you know, again,
a spark, a little spark.
So there's something in our human nature that is constantly aching for the re-establishment
of belonging with and to what in the simplest terms I will call the intelligences of origin.
And I'm using this term in a way that both implies a trans space-time continuum, some
kind continuum may be the wrong word, singularity might be the right word, a trans space-time
singularity, and also in a way that recalls the profoundly brilliant work of a philosopher
named Jean Gebser, or Jean Gebser, G-E-B-S-E-R, who has at least one book on this topic.
If you just look up Gebser in origin, you will find it.
Not on the topic of intelligences, necessarily, but on the topic of origin itself.
I miss the companion, but it was also an experience so intense and shocking and profound that
as I said, it was difficult to survive moment to moment.
And the intensity followed an arc, right?
It began relatively, well, it began shockingly intensely and then kept rising for about six
months at which time it peaked and then it began to descend and then eventually settled.
My everything that I ever knew about anything was completely transformed by this experience.
My idea is about what it means to be human, what intelligence is, why we have language,
what mathematics refers to and comes from, all of these things.
The fundamental roots of knowledge in my mind were completely transformed in the same way
that a human child taken to a kindergarten somewhere in space-time where all of the intelligences
that dwell in space-time have arranged a little school room.
I underwent something like that, at least this is how I think of it and how I might point
towards it in language with this analogy.
And I know that whatever it was that I did experience was but the tiniest shred of what
is possible and yet that was what my human mind was capable of surviving structurally.
I wonder what would have happened had I made it to first grade, so to speak, second grade
or high school or college in this analogy and I don't know.
And again, I don't know the ontological status of what happened to me, it could be psychological,
it could be in theory, many people would, well obviously it has psychological components
but there is a question about whether or not the companion that I speak of is truly not
me.
And there's also all kinds of questions about where did it go, why did it leave, is it still
in me, what was the ontological status of what happened to me, were there, what kind
of non-human intelligences were involved if indeed they were?
What is the most truthful way to speak about these things, what are their identities?
I don't know.
They are from outside the lexicon that we humans are familiar with.
And one of the things that I was taught was that our lexicons contain damage.
There's very important concepts, root concepts missing from our human lexicons because we
are no longer in the field of these experiences that I suspect must have been common at some
point in the cognitive evolution of our species.
As if our distant ancestors were aware of and motivated by these relationships and then
suddenly, relatively suddenly, those relationships broke down and were replaced by representations
of them.
So I don't know the ontological status.
I have toys with which I can point toward their likenesses, but I don't know.
And it's also possible since I've been someone who's spent a great deal of time practicing
meditation with the quote unquote goal of awakening or having, you know, enlightenment
experience.
It's conceivable that what happened to me might be described as a failed enlightenment
experience, right?
And that my conceptual mind forged the best frameworks it could for the results of that
very peculiar half-success.
This is possible.
It's plausible to me.
And yet I'm left with felt senses, memories, awareness, and aspirations that imply there's
even more to the story than was it failed enlightenment or was it contact with a non-human
intelligence.
Again, there are experiences for which our common human lexicons are too crudely articulate
to encompass.
If I want you to take anything from this discussion, it is that we're participating
in something so astonishing that we might be better off leaving all the human ideas
and stories and models and concepts aside and going directly in search of the origins
of our own being, emotions, intelligence, souls together without ideas, without preconceptions.
And one of the most profound places we can do that, the accessible transport, the lightning
rod, has at least two familiar aspects, maybe three.
One is aspiration itself.
Another is dreaming.
And the third is deep, reverential relation with living beings, places, and situations.
The silence of nature is a bridge.
Most of us will never cross that bridge, but a goodly number of us have become aware of
the fact of what I am saying.
The seeming silence of nature in the verbal conceptual domain of human intelligence is
a clue to a mystery that leads to something so staggering that it will never be represented
in conceptual thought.
Never.
Analogized?
Yes.
Represented?
No.
And I believe that we all share moment to moment in this domain of transcendental, unimaginable
intelligence and wonder and awe.
And I must say, like, I've experienced awe before, but the experience that I'm talking
about here is the origin of awe, right?
It's unimaginable in the sense that it was like being a tiny moat of intelligence in
a vast ecstatic storm of wonder and joyful reunion and communion and love and awareness
and technical intelligence that lies so far beyond anything that we've ordinarily associated
with our humanity that it's unintelligible until we are within it.
And that is reminiscent.
You cannot explain swimming to someone who's never seen water.
You cannot explain orgasm to someone who's never had one.
You can describe things.
There is no explanation that encompasses birth or death, though, you know, again, religions
have a go at this sort of thing all the time.
So I hope you may find this story inspiring, and again, I'm not trying to, I have very
little interest in promoting myself as being special.
What is profound is that I've stumbled across something half accidentally, half intentionally
that was one of the great aspirations of my life.
And it may turn out that I somehow failed, that I did not succeed because I could not
sustain the contact continuously.
And yet that may be entirely appropriate.
The companion was infinitely intelligent.
And by that I mean there are orders of infinities that have no end.
It would be impossible to encompass this friend, this teacher, this brother, sister,
mother, father, child.
And it had a personality, it had, but its personality transformed my own, was transformed
by my own, the same way our personalities are transformed when we forge relationships.
And it was loving, and it had nothing really to say about, it judged not, though through
its eyes it was clear that the behavior of our species in the absence of this relationship
is catastrophic.
We are the organs of something we have thus far been incapable of imagining.
And yet it is conceivable and possible that we can contact that something directly.
And it is my hope that for those of you who find this prospect compelling, that we may
together continue to explore and try to understand and learn about the origins of our minds,
both in a non-ordinary sense, by direct experience, and in a relatively ordinary sense by research.
Because when we look far back into human history and languages and such, we will find many
hints of what I'm speaking about.
And I can point them out, because they are familiar to me and were made familiar to me
during my experience.
The ancient languages like Hebrew and Arabic and Sanskrit and even Latin have very peculiar
features that to me are the fingerprints of a lost relationship.
Perhaps one day we shall retrieve this relationship together.
If it is good, that is my deep desire.
Our species is in crisis.
It's not clear if we, or even life on earth, will survive, though most people feel that
