So I'm not going to disassemble much today, I'm going to get right into the topic.
And the topic is something that fascinated me since childhood, because I read stories
and was exposed to the ideas of people who thought carefully about it.
The topic is the possibility of contact with non-human intelligences.
Now from one perspective I can argue there isn't anything else going on that the world
of living ecologies and beings and plants and animals and insects and fungi and cells
is both a direct expression of and the incarnate sensing organs of what Philip K. Dick coined
as a vast active living intelligence system.
Now it's different to have an idea of this than it is to have a direct experience of
it.
Most of us are capable of entertaining the idea.
The direct experience can be extremely shocking.
And while some people have proposed that psychedelic drugs can introduce us to something that resembles
what I'm talking about, as someone who has some experience of these things, I'm inclined
to be at least modestly critical and perhaps severely critical of that view.
That's the reason for that is I've been interested in this topic since childhood.
I wondered what would it be like to meet another being or species that was actually intelligent
unlike our species that I would classify as potentially intelligent.
And at the level of the species we're not, our behavior is not intelligent.
It's omnicidal.
Now it's hard to tell whether the generalization of the species represents, it's hard to tell
what that represents.
We understand the word and to what it refers.
We mean like the sum of all humans alive at this moment, and we might mean the sum of
all humans who've ever lived, but I'll stick to the ones alive right now.
And if we are to evaluate their intelligence or behavior, we're going to look at the results
of their inaction of priorities and agendas and systems and methods and so on and so forth.
And some of us will find this to look relatively or even obviously intelligent.
And others, depending on our perspective, will say no, this is not intelligent.
It's catastrophically misguided.
At least if life on Earth matters, which I'm going to presume it does, I'm going to presume
that the remaining ecologies and living beings are the most precious domain of form that
we could ever imagine encountering.
Even if worlds like ours are somewhat common in the universe, this is the one we have.
It's the only one we have, and space appears from what we've learned so far to be catastrophically
inhospitable to complex multicellular organisms like ourselves.
This may not turn out to be true, but because there may be forms of life in space that we've
never imagined or something even stranger than life, something perhaps half incarnate,
half pre-carnate, or half super-carnate, or maybe in thirds.
So because I read a great deal of science fiction as a young man, thousands of stories,
and because science fiction authors, brilliant men and women, were my mentors and teachers,
I became capable of forming ideas that are unlike those of most of my peers, even those
peers with whom I share this interest and this study, because although many science fiction
authors such as Philip K. Dick or Asimov, Bradbury, I'm Shekli, and people who write what we call
magical fiction like Borges or Cordias are, although these people are prodigies and have
astonishing imaginations, many of them, people like David Brinn for example, are incapable
of believing their own ideas, so they see their stories almost strictly as fantastical
or fantasy.
I don't think Philip K. Dick was like that, and he is someone who had a direct experience
of something that looked, it was a very brief experience, that looked to him like contact
with a non-human intelligence, and that's the primary topic that I'm exploring today.
And he wrote thousands of pages of notes about an experience that for him was relatively
brief, but he also had experiences of impossible knowledge according to his writings, knowledge
we would ordinarily consider to be impossible.
If I remember correctly, he became concerned about the well-being of an infant in his family,
who he was certain something had told him that the infant had a strangulation of its
intestines within its testicle that would result in a lethal outcome very quickly.
The child apparently was, if I recall correctly, was not expressing symptoms, they brought
the child to a doctor, the doctor found no problem, something re-communicated with Philip
and told him explicitly what the problem was, Philip told the doctor the Latin name for
what to look for, and it was discovered that indeed the child did have this, and indeed
it could have resulted in the child's death very quickly had it not been diagnosed and
treated.
Now most of us, many of us anyway, would consider that to be impossible knowledge, but Philip
went on to write a book called Valus, which stands for Vast Active Living Intelligence
System.
And I was impressed with this, though it never occurred to me that I might have a direct
experience of something like that.
In my mind, it's a beautiful hawk, in my vision, in my mind, my hope of contacting a non-human
intelligence lay either with something not from Earth, visiting Earth and me encountering
it which seemed unimaginably unlikely, or having an unusual experience of contact with
intelligence here on Earth in some way or form that humans have either forgotten or
don't believe in or failed to imagine.
And particular candidates for that kind of experience were creatures like praying mantises,
dolphins and whales, cephalopods, octopuses, squid, cuttlefish, spiders, particularly jumping
spiders, possibly cats.
We are surrounded with animals whose preternatural intelligence is often surprising to us, and
yet most of us, because we depend on verbal conceptual faculties for communication, cannot
understand how it is possible that we might get to share minds with them and learn with
their intelligences or see our forms of intelligence reflected in theirs, so that we could see
what we look like from outside, particularly from a species as incredibly ancient and primordial
as the octopus, whose form is so astonishingly well suited to its environment that it's
hard not to think of it as a direct physical expression of the oceans of Earth, a form
unchanged for four million years, longer than our species has existed.
So one of my greatest aspirations was to somehow find a way to contact, to discover if there
were contactable non-human intelligences in nature, which I assure you is a fact.
You don't have to, please don't take my word for that.
Please go directly into nature and relate with the living things and places, the living
beings and places, directly with passion and curiosity and wonder and awe and reverence
and concern and awareness.
Please take up this quest for yourself, because it's not worth speculating about.
Speculating about this is only useful if you intend to take the quest up, otherwise it's
merely a kind of mental exercise that's not likely to get you anywhere, although it could,
because you could shift in the middle of such an exercise having practiced it for a long
period of time.
You could either stumble upon something or activate an aspect of your own awareness and
intelligence that would otherwise lay dormant.
So I know that in nature, my view, and it's not necessarily a belief, it's a position,
and the position is malleable.
It changes when I get new information or new input.
I'm not trying to suggest a religion, a structured fiction or something like this.
It's my experience that nature, what we refer to as nature, which is of course everything,
it's a uniform, but mostly we mean the living things that we can contact here on earth.
Nature is the embodied expression, sensing organ, and behavioral appendages of a vast
active living intelligence system, like the one suggested by Philip K. Dick.
We are expressions of that system the same way your fingers are expressions of your hand.
Your hand is an expression of your body.
Your body is an expression of your lineage.
Your lineage is an expression of the history of life on earth, the entire history of life
on earth.
Your body in this moment is the living spark at the opposite end of a fuse that's been
growing since the first moment life arose on earth.
That history is so profound and ancient and complex and sophisticated that if you think
carefully about it you will discover organisms represent a unique domain of time.
In that domain they consistently do astonishing novel things that continuously create new
dimensions of relational, biorelational, biocognitive time, and in our case I'll coin the phrase
sci-biocognitive meaning with psyche, biocognition with psyche attached.
The words are not important.
The words are toys.
That if we're lucky we'll lead us to a direct experience of something more astonishing than
the entire sum of stories and religions and science our species has ever produced.
And that is my hope.
And the reason that I hope for this is because I have experienced something like this directly
and it wasn't momentary and it didn't involve drugs and it was testable.
For nine months, about the time it takes for a human embryo to mature and become an infant,
I had a teacher and a companion and the intelligence of that being was vastly beyond anything I
had ever imagined possible and even though it was very gentle and conscious of my fragility,
just surviving a few moments of contact with this other intelligence was one of the most
challenging things I've ever experienced.
Now I don't know what the ontological facts of my experience are.
I can't tell you for certain that it wasn't merely psychological but if it was merely
psychological it would be very difficult to account for many of the phenomenon that took
place during that experience, including phenomenon that we would ordinarily associate with psychism,
the ability to know impossible things about other beings, about things that are formalized
by humans, names, histories, dates.
I've had experiences of being able to just look.
It was with this companion the universe was like a layered living book of infinitely profound
knowledge and identity and it was accessible to me in a way I've had no experience that
even vaguely comes close to, including the experiences available through psychedelics
which compared to what happened to me without them are like a burnt matchstick compared
to the sun.
And I've never heard anyone coherently communicate trustworthy intelligence, though I suspect
it does happen, from psychedelic experience.
It's also extremely difficult to translate psychedelic experience into anything that
is meaningful in our ordinary everyday existence and that is comprehensible and approachable
and understandable, whereas most of what I learned during my experience, or at least
a goodly portion of it, is meaningful and has purchase on the nature of the history
of human cognitive evolution, on mathematics, on language, and in many domains of knowledge
that we practice as formally representational cognitive animals.
For nine months I knew an intelligence, a non-human intelligence, that I was part of,
that was part of me.
And in the first five or ten minutes of contact with this intelligence, it was as if I learned
more than in my entire lifetime before that, because I learned from a perspective that
is not ordinarily available to human beings, as if my mind achieved a superposition over
human knowledge with the aid of the companion.
Now I'm not asking anyone to believe this, again, and I'm not trying to claim that I'm
particularly interesting.
The fact that such experience is possible for human beings, this is my claim.
And that, properly motivated, this experience is possible for nearly anyone.
There are many peculiar features of my own experience that may be unique to me, or they
may not.
I cannot tell for I have no one with whom to compare this experience.
But what I want you to consider is the possibility that what you call your mind is actually the
moment-to-moment evidence of your own participation in a vast, active living intelligence system.
And that if you were able to, like the salmon, the traces its origins from the ocean back
to a specific river, up specific aquifers, and up waterfalls, to where it was born.
If you could do this with your mind, and I believe we can, you would encounter something
so shocking that it would obliterate human knowledge, and replace it with something so
astonishing that the sum of science fiction pales in comparison to it, so to the sum of
science and religion and ideas and mathematics and everything.
I think we are the children and the direct expressions of an array of intelligences that
dwell both in and beyond time space that are staggeringly beautiful, ecstatically profound,
and are to what we think of as thoughts, like stars are to sparks.
And I don't think this because I have an idea about it.
I think it because I've experienced it.
And while I experienced it, other living things were aware of it.
In other words, they recognized the presence of this companion in me and knew the companion
themselves and demonstrated to me that they were aware.
And this included plants, animals, children, particularly infants.
I strongly suspect that in infancy, we all may know this companion, but there's some
kind of catastrophe that happens related to in languaging and in culturation that deprives
us of this awareness, because although in the first moments of the onset of this experience,
it was like nothing I could compare to, there were no comparators, at the same time it was
the kind of aha moment that happens when you're laughing at something hilarious, where you
realize I've known this all along, I simply couldn't bring it into consciousness.
And the comedian, you know, or yourself or whoever is making us laugh is sort of the
lightning rod that connects us to that knowledge, reconnects us with something we've sort of
known intrinsically, but never we're never able to articulate or hold in consciousness.
Now this topic is infinitely deep.
And my goal today is really just to introduce it.
And again, it's not that I think my story of this is particularly interesting, though
some might find it so, rather, its implications are profound.
And some of the specific things I learned during that experience, which I can teach
and show and speak of and illustrate to other human beings may turn out to be particularly
important or profound.
Now when this happened, I was on a quest, and my quest, in a sense, was to understand
the nature of our species in nature, and particularly what went wrong, what got broken with human
beings.
There are many stories that imply that at some point in human evolution, there was an accident
or a series of accidents that both led to our present unique capacities as animals, but
