Hi there, my name is Paulin.
In my mind, I have a garden of neurons.
Something crosses the gaps between them, the space that gets structured by that crossing.
That's what the bees are doing, but they're structuring it intelligently.
The cars and the internet are ripping it apart.
That's why the bees are dying.
That's why our minds are tanking.
Our minds are like the flower gardens.
They have nets of neurons.
And the neurons are hard structure, right?
But they inform the space between them with neurotransmitters.
The way that we're using chemistry in nature and the way that we're using technology in terms of transmission is screwing all of that up.
And it's ripping nature apart and our intelligence.
This doesn't have to do with religion.
This is not.
This is actually just, this doesn't have to do with any specific way of knowledge.
This is just human beings examining themselves and what they know in nature.
Now, cars are one way of dealing with gas.
Do you notice that bees don't just pierce you like a bullet and run right through you?
But our cars do.
See, that's the difference between intelligence and something that isn't intelligence.
And I'm going to be going on a lot about this in future talks,
but I want you to just think very carefully about all the ways that structure informs space in nature and in your life, in technology, in literature.
We've got a blank page.
There's little squiggles on there.
The structure and the space.
And the little squiggles are informed by the space.
In other words, the other little squiggles around them change what they mean.
Just like you and me, we're kind of these wiggling things, right?
And the pages are world.
And we are writing a story, but it's not for in frozen letters and it's not by laws or rules.
It's by sensing a mutual relation.
It's not by memes or governments.
It's by connecting like this.
Where this is our purpose, which is beautiful and true and not fake and stylish.
And then this becomes intelligence like a pot of dolphins or a hive of bees.
Not like an army of cars.
Be careful in the street.
Learn about the differences.
I'll see you soon.
Bye-bye for now.
Thank you for being a visitor.
