Hi. Thank you for joining me. My name is Darren Stevenson, probably watching my YouTube channel.
If you're not, feel free to stop by, share something, wander around,
some interesting ideas and signals toward intelligence there.
What I'd like to talk about today is a topic so general that it's kind of frightening.
It's the difference between space and structure, so the difference between how different kinds of spaces are structured.
What sorts of activities take place there?
One of the things you can probably understand immediately is that we use automobiles to travel in much of our modern lives.
You should realize that that's a fairly new phenomenon for life on Earth for many billions of years
because more billions of years than there were history of Earth
because each of the creatures that lived on Earth was a kind of a living time of its own speed,
some faster, some slower than our human time.
Each of the populations is sort of a living sea of time
because each one of those beings is experiencing time uniquely and then all of those beings are experiencing time in kind of a set,
as a set of all of those beings, but they're also experiencing time with all the other beings on Earth.
Earth is like a layered star of relational time and you can understand this with a simple model.
If you spin the Earth around the Sun one time with one person on it, you get one life year.
If you put two people on it, you get two life years, not one year, you get two.
The really weird thing is you not only get those two life years, but you get this strange space.
See, this is the structure. These are the two people, those structures.
They're coming up from the Earth here, right?
And then you have this space, which is the environment, and that gets structured by them being in it.
Just like Facebook was really boring until we got there and then we structured it.
It's a space, yeah?
And just by being there, we structured it and that structure became valuable to other people, right?
And reaching into our presence in that space, these other people made mountains of money.
Well, what did we make exactly?
Now, I made some things and I'm not sure a lot of other people did.
I'm not sure what they made exactly.
That's not so important. What I want you to understand is two people around the Sun one time.
That's two life years, okay?
Now, but if you put something with one of these persons, say a bacteria, just one.
Of course, there's 500 trillion bacteria.
I think that's the right number, 500 trillion about in a person, an adult person.
About 50 trillion animal cells, about 10 times that many bacterial cells.
That's what they call germs, by the way.
That's what antibiotics kill. That's 90% of you.
Just to be clear on that, science sort of forgot,
just a moment, my neighbors would like to interrupt us with his machine, or at least emphasize.
Science sort of forgot. That was actually a good point, a good emphasis.
Science forgot about 90% of the body.
When they talk about your DNA, they're talking about 10% of it.
And when they're talking about medicine, they're talking about 10% of medicine
because they've ignored 90% of it, much like space.
They don't know what 90% of that stuff out there is.
They don't know why it's there.
The stuff they're calling dark energy, I know what that is.
I mean, it's not hard to understand, if you understand structure and space.
The incredible interactions of elements of structure, elements of hard structure,
like us, like bodies, like a planet, like a sun,
they instruct the informing space around them, just like as we do in Facebook or Twitter.
The Twitter is just a template.
And then we instruct that template, and then we invent,
we draw into that template ourselves, or aspects of ourselves, or our expression, actually.
And then that template comes alive.
And so a human person is kind of like that.
They are, in many senses, more than one, a template born an animal,
ready to become any animal.
If you raise a human baby among snakes, you're going to get a snake.
If you raise it among machines, you're going to get a machine.
As we can see, if you raise it among humans, you got a question on your hands.
I mean, what do you got there exactly?
Is it a human? Just because you raised it amongst them?
No, what you got is a prototype.
You've got a possible human.
And whether it's a human or not, in other words, whether it's developed into humanity,
sort of depends on what you think humanity is, or what you'd like it to be.
It doesn't have to be a specific thing.
But we can kind of look without knowing exactly what humanity is.
We can look at a lot of what we do as, you know, cultures and people trapped in cultures, prisoners, really.
We can look at a lot of what we do and realize it's not very human.
Our medicine is not very human. Our cultures aren't very human.
What we call liberty, it's not very human. It's not natural.
Meaning, it is part of nature because nature is everything.
It's not natural because it's biophobic or it's biocidal.
It actually just assassinates huge swaths of living intelligence, wipes them out,
and replaces them with, like, photographs and malls and cars and jets and war,
and books and pictures and internet things and, you know, whatever.
Just any old thing to get rid of the living beings as quickly as possible.
They don't have a voice, so let's just turn them into stuff.
Well, they did that with U2 and that's the whole idea of U2, right?
Turn you into stuff.
And then they sell that stuff and then you don't get anything except attention.
And a little bit of money, maybe.
So they'll make, like, you know, basically what happens is this.
You guys start out like this.
Okay, here's U2, here's U. You're real, they're fake.
They set up Potemkin Village, which is a phony facade of a structure.
And then you start moving in, you know.
The moment that starts happening, this starts happening.
And then pretty soon, it's like this.
And then it just keeps going like this until someone takes their spot.
And then this new person picks up where this guy lets off.
It looks like this for a minute.
But now the time frame between this and this is halved, right?
And the time frame between this and this one getting taken over by another is halved
and that's basically how our culture works at every level.
And underneath all that are dying, crushed beings and ecosystems
and futures of human beings and living beings
that actually lifted us to the possibility of all this intelligence
that we're dumping down the toilet and burning up for things like greeting cards
and, I don't know, memes and photographs of nature
that is destroyed by us photographing nature
instead of being nature
in the same way that if we just photograph our children
and we don't relate with them.
Well, I think you can see what happens to us
and our world and our children.
So we need to understand this whole interplay of space
and things that structure it
because there's sort of, in a basic way, there's two kinds of things.
There's things that structure space
in ways that oppose intelligence in life
and tear the web of life and intelligence apart.
Now those ways are still natural because they're in nature.
And they're not necessarily evil because they actually produce intelligence.
Weirdly enough.
But we want to stop them before they burn the whole planet down
as like a luxury snack for 10 people.
That is off the table.
That we need to just stop right now.
And one of the ways that's going to happen
is we're going to play together in little pods
of incredibly intelligent human beings in nature, with nature,
all the time from now on.
And so the people who are mimicking intelligence
are pretending to be heroes.
Not that this hand is bad. This is a really good hand, actually.
This is actually the hand you want to be a little bit confused about.
A little bit skeptical of the right hand.
My camera's reversed. This is technology.
It always kind of makes things backwards and funny.
Now I want you to think about a few different ways that
structure informs space.
I want you to think about when you walk down the sidewalk.
That's a structure, but it's also space.
It used to be a living space. Now it's a dead space.
So that you can walk down it faster and not be interrupted or troubled by anything.
It might be live.
You wouldn't want that.
Many things are kept behind fences.
You know, a rose bush is going to attack you. It's like a thorn in some things.
There's bees and hornets and stuff all around there.
I mean, spray that stuff down, man.
That's your own intelligence you're killing off, by the way.
That you're fencing in like that.
You're paving over. It's your mind.
Underneath that stuff is our minds. It hurts.
Anyway, you're walking down the sidewalk and you want to cross the street.
Well, those are two different speeds of gaps.
So the sidewalk has one speed. It's basically safe for you to walk on at that speed.
It might not be for animals, because you could be riding a bike and an animal could get hurt or you could get hurt.
But basically, the sidewalk is generally safe.
Now, next to the sidewalk is a much faster thing, but it's not owned by life.
It's owned by dead angels.
An angel is anything that crosses the gap, by the way.
We're not talking about religion. We're just talking about...
We're just using language in a playful way.
So we're going to imagine that the street is a real gap, because it is a gap.
We've got to cross the street to get to you, to get to anywhere I want to go.
And it's not made for people.
You can't lie down or sit in the street. You can't hang out there, right?
Living things are not...
It's game over for living things that want to stay in the street.
We all know that.
And it's not about a court case or anything.
You're in the street at the wrong time. You're killed.
There's no decision making.
It's not about a conversation.
It's not about beings being beings.
It's about, blam, you're dead.
There's nothing like that much in nature.
There's no place in nature that moves like that.
Ever.
I mean, in all 4.5 billion years... Yeah, right.
In all 4.5 billion years of history.
The only thing that moves like that would be like a flow of lava.
But even that's more intelligent than cars.
And even that leads to, you know, something like life.
So we got this weird gap thing, the street.
And there are these strange boxes on both sides.
And they surround our living enclaves, by the way.
These weird metal boxes.
If you've ever seen a cell attacked by viruses,
and you made the comparison, you realize those are viruses.
Because what viruses do is they're not sort of living.
They're structure.
They're sort of like really intelligent structure.
And they take over a living cell,
and then they make that cell replicate the structure of the virus madly.
And that's how we get sick.
But viruses aren't just bad.
Viruses are a little bit like honeybees.
And even bad things aren't just bad.
You can't, like, get rid of all the bad things.
You don't want to do that.
But if things have gone way out of control,
you want to at least recognize them, right, together.
So you can figure out what to do.
You don't have to have one person telling you.
Or scientists demanding that you think their way.
