To understand things, I have questions like,
why is there only one species of animal on earth that we know of
that uses formally representational language?
How did this happen?
Why do living worlds produce animals like this?
Was there interference from some divine being or some advanced other dimensional being?
I mean, was this a plan?
Was this just sort of an accident of evolutionary nature?
Is there quite something?
They're soft.
They're beautiful.
So I have a lot of questions and I encourage people
who want to broaden their minds and get in touch with the deeper aspects of their humanity
to quest, right?
To acquire an urgent desire for adventure
and for some purpose that one finds noble and true and good
and trustworthy and exciting and amazing.
For many of us, the most common instance of this
or the common instances are examples, are things like finding a mating partner,
getting a job, which is sort of a terrible thing.
And usually a kind of miserable quest for many, many people, if not most.
Finding a home, obtaining a pet, growing a garden, making money.
Sometimes we may have the quest to produce some unique creative output
such as a scientific theory, weird first example,
a piece of artwork, a piece of music, a collection of music,
a collection of stories, a novel, a book of essays,
an illustrated selection of the finest dreams from our lifetime.
Some of us quest for knowledge, we want to become mathematically adept
or who want to be biologists or, you know, sociologists or therapists
or masseuses or martial artists.
I'm still surprised by my weird question, right?
What's the most important question?
And by the strange answer, well, I'm not sure, but that's not it.
And I can understand why that's the answer
and I was able to explain partially, you know, a little bit technically,
why that's, that must be so.
However, if you reduce the scope, right, if you say like,
and if you change the question slightly,
what are some of the most important questions in biology?
What are some of the most important questions in cognition,
in human communications, in understanding human behavior,
in entomology, in chemistry, in physics, in computer science?
These kinds of questions, you know, like,
show me a selection of the most important questions in some field.
Those can be, those kinds of surveys can be useful and even helpful
because we may then select one of them to focus on
and most of us are going to focus.
We're not going to just go around collecting questions, right?
We're going to chase a few of them.
And some of those questions can be disambiguated to the point
where they reform, right?
At a new order of insight, if we presume that up is better, right?
Then going up the ladder of orders is good.
If we presume down is better, it's down.
If it's, you know, forward, it's forward, whatever we presume.
But it is possible to, possible, enjoyable, exciting
when we experience that rewarding feeling of having leapt to a new order of awareness
or intelligence or understanding or capacity to grasp or manipulate.
Some aspect of the ideological, cognitive, material or mathematical universe.
Some aspects of a subcontext that we can, you know, reasonably identify.
I'm a supporter of good quests.
I like, it's part of what makes being an incarnate human being exciting
is that we have this capacity for adventure.
And some quests are just really unique to individuals, right?
I think there were very few people who ever thought they were going to free climb El Capitan.
But eventually one was born and succeeded, quite astonishingly, at a quest otherwise unimaginable.
What did he get?
Well, he didn't receive any object.
You could say he got some recognition, but what he got was the experience of succeeding.
In that case, you know, there was someone who wanted to go around the world for the first time.
There are these kinds of people who want to do something that's never been done before,
simply because it's never been done.
I mean, I'm not as interested in that.
To me, that's a little bit personally.
Like there's things I want to do that have never been done, don't get me wrong.
But to have that as the motivating, like, root of the thing, it's not interesting enough.
It seems a little grandiose.
One of my personal quests is to have some direct experience of the minds of our distant ancestors.
I'd like to know what they thought they were looking at when they looked at the night sky.
Long before the ideas of planets and stars emerged, what were they seeing?
And I don't want to know, I mean, sure, I'm interested in knowing that intellectually.
And there are many quests that are intellectual, but a lot of the quests that matter to me
are quests of experiential relation with something.
I want that, I want intimacy.
I want that kind of knowledge.
I want the flavor of the thing in my mouth.
I want to bring it inside me.
I want it to bring me inside it.
I want without, you know, being consumed and dying.
For example, I'm really interested in sharks, but I don't wish to be consumed, do I want?
And I don't need to taste them either.
But I would like to relate with them.
Have that kind of intimacy.
That would be astonishing, if relatively safe.
Not all quests are safe.
Some of them will get you killed.
Some of them will get you badly injured.
Some of them will get you isolated.
Quests often have risks, right?
That's part of what makes their fulfillment rewarding.
You know, I was listening to, as I have been lately, Eric Weinstein's podcast,
and I was listening to him talking with his brother about a quest
relating to antagonistic pleotropy and telomeres, telomeres, telomeres, telomerase, telomeres.
By the way, if you have any interest in molecular biology or genetics or anything like that,
hey, listen to that podcast. It's fabulous.
Even if you're just interested in drug research and mouse models, listen to that podcast.
But both of those guys, Eric and Brett, brothers, they're guys who go on quests.
They have all kinds of quests.
And some of them are social.
Some of them are sociological or involve the development of society.
We too often use the word evolution here, but I think it's a misnomer
because evolution doesn't necessarily mean development.
It sort of means, I don't know, it's really hard to say clearly what it actually means.
It refers to an array of studies of how life undergo stabilization and transformation
over time in living contexts, something like this.
But it's not always development, right?
I mean, if by development we mean progress.
I would like to know the mind of a tree.
I would like to know the mind of a bee.
I would like to participate in the mind of the sea.
I want to know and understand so many, many beautiful things.
And I find we learn best together.
So it's often wonderful to have partners in quest who share our enthusiasm,
our curiosity, our passion, our drive, who feel the same gravity, right?
But have their own unique histories and perspectives and orientations and such.
Because when we are together with such people, we're almost always better off than when we are alone.
Though there are a few things that we have to do pretty much by ourselves.
Thank you for joining me.
Catch you next time.
