the actual, what's actually going on in the universe are things so staggeringly profound
that our wildest fantasies look timid and completely uncreative in the face of what
they're what they're standing in the way of us seeing, right? The nature of time space and
intelligence in time space, what's actually going on here as living beings in living minds
is an adventure and like a fantasy story so astonishingly beautiful and profound
that the sum of books that humans have ever written, the entire uvra of human ideation
is like a charred piece of nat shit compared to what we're made of and what we're made to
live and discover and become together. So we definitely don't want to trade our innate
birthrights away for endlessly mass produced counterfeits and fantasy stories that while
reminiscent of something within us do not deliver that something into our direct experience,
do not recover it to our direct access and relation, understanding awareness and embodiment.
We are gap crossers and everything in life is like this, the gap between one heartbeat and the
next, this breath and the next one, the first one and the last one and so on, the gap between me
and my beloved, those who I would adore and those who I would oppose, all of these gaps. If you look
carefully at what life is doing and you try to find out what's one of the most fundamental ways to
understand what organisms are up to, this idea of inventing and crossing gaps to produce
developmental possibilities that were previously unthinkable is one of the simplest, most profound
and most universal things we might perceive or that might come into our awareness when
beginning to ask this question with passion and curiosity and an authenticity and sincerity
if we're asking the question with deep integrity. So now it's pretty dark and I've covered some
of the terrain that I was hoping to cover, particularly the terrain related to the topic
of crossing gaps and I began in light and I will end in darkness and there's an example of crossing
a gap. Think of all the different ways humans want to fill time. So them watching shows or
listening to podcasts or doing chores or whatever it is they're doing, all of these are ways of
productively, quote unquote, navigating what we think of as a span of time
and it's interesting that we use this language, it's not accidental.
So now that it is dark and I have a few other gaps to cross before I get home,
I will thank you for joining me and wish you all insight, good roles,
wonder, enthusiasm, fascination, love, joy and the blessings
of success in all the aspects of your day, world, life and relationships.
Bye-bye for now. See you soon, I hope.
