All right, so I just want to clarify a few things before you continue. We're going to go to the bookmark of the woman in San Francisco.
Right. Yeah. Again.
Matt Walters. Yeah.
Yeah, but we're still talking a little bit about the beaver bundle and.
I want to just hear from you.
What is the meaning of a transfer? We've said a little bit about what the beaver bundle is. Explain if you will a little bit about transfer.
Yeah, well, you know, transfer is is being given a way of doing something.
If it's a major transfer, a lot of times it's being given a new way of life.
When when it's a beaver bundle transfer, that's what it is. Hey, it's being given a whole new way of life and a new role. It's a it's a
What do you call it?
It can be a right of passage. It can be as simple as somebody teaching you how to make a sandwich.
It could be as complicated as, you know, someone training you in something extremely specialized that maybe two or three people on the face of the earth know about, you know.
So, all that stuff can be transfer, you know, when it when it comes to the Blackfoot way of life and stuff.
You really need to be exposed to those bundles in order to get the core philosophies.
You don't have to take care of a bundle necessarily.
Just, you know, be in the community and exposed to them and such to get some of those core philosophies and if you from, you know, if you don't do that you can be Blackfoot and not be Blackfoot almost.
You know, you can you can you can you can be here and grow up here and well not really everybody here is exposed to the bundles we all we all got that core core shit but if you if you never if you never lived here and been exposed to that then
you know it's it's it's you know you don't got the culture you don't got it right.
It's just it's it's in it's in those bundles.
It's not a religious thing so much.
It's cultural but it has these kind of religious underpins, you know, because you can connect all of these things to these bundles, these bundles have these origins that are, you know, very like legendary origins.
Lots of mythological things.
You know, animals and people sitting down and making treaties and shit, you know, yes. Yeah.
I want to get back to Harvard but absolutely.
I don't want to I don't want to leave I don't want to leave questions unanswered. Do you have a couple things and feel free to correct me.
You know, it's an outsider.
Right.
But the bundle seems to me to be something that we don't really have in the West, an idea of.
It's like a library of histories and relationships and traditions that is itself alive.
Yeah, it's a it's a living thing.
This is what I want to be really clear about.
Yeah, the bundles of living being and when you're taking care of it that's a living being that you're taking care of.
Yes.
And you have to nurture it.
And you have to tend to like, you know,
everything like all the kind of crazy shit that you would with any human being living being.
It is not we don't have a category for this in English.
There's no category for this only the category of living being.
But never we would think in English that something that we would be likely to view as an object would be a living being.
Yeah, and there's like, we're gonna get into some of that too.
When we talk about Harvard.
Okay.
I just wanted to just take a moment and clarify a few of those unusual things because without understanding this, you're not going to really have any hope of even conceptualizing what a bundle is.
No, well, you know, like a lot of people have asked me to try to explain concisely what a what the beaver bundle or any bundle is.
It's really difficult with a beaver bundle.
The most concise explanation that I have is that it is the living embodiment of a treaty between the humans and the animals.
It is tangibly a role of mostly animal skins and other artifacts that have come into that bundle paint, tobacco, tobacco seeds, stick calendars.
There's a with the beaver bundle.
There's a lot of things in wrapped in it, but it's mostly animal skins.
And the and the ceremony is a reenactment of the treaty.
And, but, you know, interestingly, the dances follow a progression like an annual phenological progression of animal mating.
And so that the dances are mostly animal dances.
Well, they're all animal dances, but they follow a sequence through the season that you're that you're speaking toward whenever you're in blackfish ceremony you're always speaking toward whatever's happening and going to happen in the like very near future.
And that's, you know, that's just a renewal of the treaty every time that goes on.
So the beaver bundle does this twice a year at the end of summer and at the end of winter.
There's just the two seasons really formally recognized and there's words for that transition.
Between them like fall and spring and fall, but, but, but they're not really seasons per se, you know, their transition points between summer and winter.
The between time.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, it's, it's just the transition.
There's not even, there's not even a between time.
There's not a gap.
There's summer and then winter boom, boom.
And it feels like that here too.
Like, when he thought story comes, you know, the cold arrives.
That's what it's literally called.
And it does boom, and it's here.
You were in summer last week.
You were wearing shorts and t-shirt.
And now you got snow and it's sub zero.
You know, and then
associated with each of the beings or elements in the beaver bundle.
There are songs.
Yeah.
Well, that's the thing.
Like each of the animals.
Well, the beaver bundle is the thing.
Nobody knows how many songs are in the beaver bundle.
Hundreds and hundreds have come and gone.
And there is a core group of songs from the,
from the original treaty and some of the major things that have
happened that all of the beaver bundles have kind of like.
Like, because there's more than one beaver bundle at this point.
Right.
There was, there was originally the one and an origin story to that.
And then other people had experiences where they were told to create
bundles and such, but they had to do it through the original.
Right.
So it's all got the original link to it.
Right.
It's all got something tangibly, like physically from the original.
I want to imagine the situation where, for example, you have a fire.
Yeah.
And the fire has been started from a coal from a previous fire.
Yeah.
And it goes all the way back to the first fire.
Yeah.
And so this fire right in front of you has the first fire in it.
Yep.
By analogy.
Exactly.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Precisely.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's good.
Yeah, because things,
things wear out in the bundles, like physical things.
Of course.
You have to replace them.
You're talking 10,000 years plus maybe, you know?
Yeah.
You have to replace things when they wear out.
But it's like the fire, like you say, hey, it's the same fire.
You know, you got to have to, you have to feed more wood in that fucking fire.
Right.
Yes.
Yeah.
So, so yeah, the beaver bundle, the animals all gave their robes,
which is their, which is a symbol of protection, right?
Their robes, what they, what they use to protect, camouflage themselves,
all that stuff.
Think about that.
You know, that's what they, they gave that.
And then they sang a song or many songs.
And in each of those songs were other things like how they get their medicines,
how they hunt their foods, how they make their homes,
how they live with their spouses, how they raise their children,
like all of these kinds of things.
When, when human beings, like in this story of the, of the beaver bundle origin,
the animals looked at the human beings as the most recent arrival basically,
like a very recent arrival and ill equipped, ill adapted.
We can't run fast.
We can't swim very well.
We can, can't climb trees very well.
We can't fly at all.
You know, we're weak, we're soft, we're slow.
We don't have a rope.
We don't have a rope.
We literally have no rope.
They could have called us like no rope.
Okay, but, all right.
In the origin story of the beaver bundle,
there's something about not having a rope.
Because there's a point where Nob ski,
who's the tiger salamander,
steps up to offer his contribution to the bundle.
And right away, the other animals start mocking him
because he doesn't have a rope to give.
He's not given anything physical into the bundle.
There's no rope.
You don't got no fur, no feathers, no nothing.
And so the animals were mocking him.
They're telling me he's just naked.
He doesn't have anything.
Why is he even here?
They don't understand it.
You know, and he got mad.
And he's saying this song, which I know.
And then he, and then he left the lodge.
His wife was still there and she hung out.
I don't know why she didn't leave, but that's her anyway.
He left.
And the song that he's saying brought on a deluge rainstorm.
So heavy that the lake that they were camped next to the waters
were rising and threatening to flood out the ceremony for the
rest of the night, the whole, like, you know, the whole tree.
Right.
And so the animals begged the salamander's wife to bring him
back and stop the rain.
And she did.
And then, and then with another song, which I know.
And those were his contributions to the bundle, those songs.
And then right after him, ironically.
The frog that the the chorus from stood up to contribute to the
bundle.
And the Nam ski, the tiger salamander who just been mocked
to the frog, the fuck are you doing here?
You don't got any, anything to give to this bundle.
You don't even, you're just naked.
You don't, you don't got anything to offer.
And he, and he pushed him, he pushed him on his chest and the
frog fell down on his back.
And he fell down and he had his hands up like this by his head
with four fingers on one side and three on the other.
And he, he told the animals.
Yeah.
He told them, this gets seven.
I'm giving seven winter moons to the humans during which all of
your hides, all of your, all of your beautiful robes are going
to be so thick, so lovely, the humans are going to be hunting
you and wanting to kill you.
Kind of a curse.
Yep.
Because let me be clear about what he's saying.
He's saying.
It was a good turn.
All of you people who have robes, your robes are going to be so
