And he's like, all right, go ahead.
You know, my, you know,
my relatives are not worth anything.
Do you have some food? Go.
I have a, I have a dog here that's.
I'm pet sitting. Ah, yes.
Who's been here now 24 hours and not eating.
Yeah.
You can't tell whether where the owner is,
if he gets to go home, if he's coming, why is this happening?
Great stress down.
There we go.
You're going to eat, aren't you? There you go, Jimmy.
Oh.
Um.
Oh, where are we?
His cousins have turned back.
Oh yeah.
Now he's on his own.
Yeah.
He's on his own.
And then a storm approaches.
He's decided in his mind, he's going to go.
Down to the opponent.
And he's just going to go right nuts on them.
And do, you know, like.
He's probably going to die. It's a suicide mission.
He's going to let them take his life because he's, he's so like him.
You know, humiliated and upset with his.
Relatives for not continuing with him.
Anyway, the storm is coming.
And he finds a crab.
In some rock.
In the coolies to climb into.
And you can go deep into this crab to get out of the weather.
But it gets.
You know, dark, dark.
In there.
Pitch, pitch black, dark.
In the cave.
And.
In that cave, he's kind of like, you know, the storm is raging and
shit outside and he's just kind of like hanging out in the cave.
But then he bumps into something.
And he starts feeling it.
And then he realizes.
This, this is another fucking guy in here.
Like standing right here, you know.
And his heart's racing.
He doesn't know who the heck this is.
Could be a, could be an enemy, anything.
He starts like frantically kind of feeling this guy.
He's already touched him and felt him up a little bit to like,
before he came to the realization that's a fucking person, you know.
So he starts touching him a little bit more to try to figure out.
Does he have anything on him that I can tell what, you know,
what kind of person this is.
Something like symbols and shit, you know,
and he can't find nothing.
In the dark.
And so ultimately he takes a risk.
And he goes like this.
And he rubs his fist on the guy's cheek.
Like this.
This is the sign for be gunny.
Which is his tribe.
He was telling him who he was, which is a huge risk.
And the other guy puts his finger on owl child's chest.
And does the zigzag.
Cross his chest.
And he's telling him he's bit sick.
The snake person.
That's their opponent.
And so again, like.
Owl child's heart starts racing.
Because he thinks this is it. Like any second he's getting killed.
Or kill, kill or get killed, you know.
But he doesn't, he doesn't, he doesn't move on the guy.
And.
Then they, they, they keep trying to like use.
Sign language on each other's bodies.
To try to start communicating things.
And when the storm lets up, they go outside.
And they go full into playing sign language.
Which was the lingua franca of the time, you know, and.
They realized that they actually have super similar stories.
This guy was coming up north to raid them.
With his brothers and all that shit and his guys turned back and chickened out and all that.
They're mirroring.
Yeah, they're very, they're very much mirroring.
And there, there isn't really any big difference between them, so to speak.
You know, the symbols.
You know, that couldn't even show up in the cave.
What the fuck do those really mean, you know, why are we.
Hanging on to those we're not really very different.
They start like.
They start a real conversation, maybe we should.
Maybe we shouldn't be opponents.
So they divide they put together a scheme.
Each one is going to cut.
A little piece of scalp.
A braid like.
Off the other guy.
And take it home.
And tell the story about the how they, you know.
Went, you know, even though everybody abandoned, they went there and they fought the enemy and all that shit and.
And.
And then they were going to, they knew that.
People would question.
Because they're each missing a breed too.
Right.
So they devised a plan to bring their people back to meet at the certain spot under the auspices that they were going to prove.
They're going to show them the dead body, the enemy.
You know.
And so they each went and actualized this.
And brought their people back and visit.
There's a whole long story about the kind of interaction that happened there.
But suffice to say they ended up the two guys, our child and the.
And the, and the snake man.
They traded lives.
They traded lodges, they traded wives, they traded everything.
We just like they just entered into each other's tribe and took on that person's identity.
And then they encouraged people to camp together for a little while at the end of that summer.
And make relationships, which they did.
Everybody was getting along.
Many long term relationships were made.
Hold on, I gotta call my dogs.
That's good, Jenny.
Oh.
Jenny's the Dalmatian.
She ate.
And then wanted to go out.
That's good.
She's been going out, but she hadn't eaten yet.
She'd been too stressed.
Oh, Jenny.
Let's go in.
So a lot of good relationships were made.
And at the end of the season, kind of when the sea, like they had just like you can't campus one big camp for very long, you know, that's very harvest time.
Right.
Only when there's enough resources to feed everybody.
Yeah, right.
So as, as winter's approaching, you got to break up in the smaller smaller camps and it sucks for everybody because they like to be together, you know.
So, so the people in this new camp were kind of grieving that they had to leave each other.
The teenagers were especially having difficulty dealing with the younger people having difficulty dealing with the separation.
And so while everybody was already starting to move out.
They kind of lingered on and played some more games together.
And one of the games that they played was a hoop and arrow game.
Where you, where you throw this, this ring is divided into different segments and stuff and then you try to pass a dart through an arrow through it, you know, and depending on what part of the hoop you hit, you get different points and that kind of thing.
At the end of the game.
Two boys seem to be tied.
But they disagreed that they were tied.
They each thought they actually beat the other and they start arguing about it.
And in the end.
That be Gunny Boy
picked up a weapon.
I think a stick.
Something simple.
And killed that snake boy.
The young, the younger guy.
And that rekindled the whole feud.
That they had supposedly overcome.
And, you know, so for me, like,
there's, you know, and this, this is what like we have, we have a dance in the beaver bundle that has that, that ring that they played with.
And the scalp.
And it involves the links, which is the embodiment of morning star.
The links dances that scalp around the hoop, the hoop and stick and
but the song.
That goes with it is a is a song about.
You know, the, it's a, it's now used as a victory song.
But it's a, it's a song that says, you know, the snake man, he cried anyway.
And it's, it's a weird thing, like I get from the story, like, there's very court, like, you know, basic anthropological stuff that I get.
From the story, you know, like we are, we are all human.
We are all like, basically the same.
In all of our motivations and the ways that we carry out things and all of this weird weird, you know, at core, we're all the same.
But these symbols divide us if like the visual thing.
And if we can take out that element at all, you know, if we can take out that element, we can get much closer.
But then the next divisory issue is distance.
It reminds me of the divisions in the hoop.
Not saying it's important.
Also, we got about, we got about one minute and then I have to record again.
Okay.
Can you hold your thought here?
Well, this is basically the end of this story.
That's the owl child story.
And that's what the owl child scout in the bundle.
Yes.
Yeah.
Well, no, he's enemies scout.
Well, he's a snake.
Snake.
The snake boy scout with the, with the hoop.
Sometimes also with the, with the dark.
What does it mean the snake boy cried anyway, the snake boy died.
This, yeah.
Yeah.
Well, he, he cried anyway.
The snake, the snake man. Cause he, when he was being killed.
Um, you, like in the two games.
The point systems.
