Now it doesn't mean that they go away entirely, part of how we understand meaning
depends on the survival of at least a small aspect of this essential pre-linguistic intelligence, this pre-linguistic awareness.
And many of us suffer because although we've preserved some degree of it
so that we can at least understand language and respond to statements and such,
the degree differs in each human being and it differs in each context
and contexts transform that degree, situations, relationships and so on.
They change this degree to which we are able to experience meaning
and not just have a thought, a thinky thing, a sort of computational like thing
that tells us that round indicates a circular, you know, some quality, right?
We can ascertain qualities and understand qualities implied by language,
but meaning is a different thing. Meaning is something, it's a felt sense.
It's like your heart, right?
So I'm suggesting that when we were children, first of all, I think we were entranced constantly
and part of this trance is what we call play.
And people say like, you know, will you grow out of that?
No, I don't think that's what happened. I don't think we ever grow out of that.
What happens instead is something very tragic. It gets buried, it gets extinguished
and it gets extinguished by our encounter with that representational layer of consciousness, of awareness,
which doesn't have to have that quality.
That's not the only way we can play this game that's very profound to us as humans.
Oh, this is astonishing. I'm going to interrupt for a moment of just participation,
even if only through an image, in this phenomenon.
The humans might classify this as a decomposer, but it's far more profound.
And in fact, as I said, it's an entrance. This is a way of entering everything by just relating with it directly.
It's funny. I have the urge to take a photograph, even though I've recorded this.
I have the urge to take. I do. I can help you.
If you travel either in that direction and go past those palm trees, you'll come to it.
Or if you go in that direction, you'll come to the entrance you came into where I first saw you.
Sure thing.
They wanted to know where the exit is.
And what I would like for us to discover together is where is the exit to representational intelligence?
Because somewhere near that exit hovers that essential awareness that we had as children, right?
That was so profound that it endowed us with the capacity to acquire a representational overlay.
And that overlay eventually essentially extinguished the thing we acquired it with, although it left remnants.
And those are what we refer to when we these days talk about our imagination.
Because that's the place, actually memory, what we call memory is a feature of imagination.
Without an imagination, you can't have memory. It's not storage, right?
So today we've been exploring ideas related in my birdwalk, if you will.
We've been exploring ideas related to the different aspects of consciousness that we are familiar with from our common human experience, waking, dreaming, trance.
And yet those divisions aren't real. Those divisions are conveniences of language, right?
What's real is the actual quality of experience that our awareness brings forth.
That we become, in a sense, right?
We don't just experience consciousness, we become different kinds of flow in awareness.
And one of the best metaphors for this, but the metaphor is incomplete at best, is water or liquid or atmosphere.
When I see the flowing swirls on the surface of photographs or films of Jupiter, I imagine that a mind is not entirely dissimilar.
Somehow this resembles the activities of a mind or of awareness.
And I want us to resurrect the pre-linguistic imagination of our childhood that's represented in the Bible as Abel, who was killed by Cain.
And now is sort of banished to the underworld, which we might imagine to be the dimension of dreaming.
Yeah.
I'm so excited to be able to even have the opportunity to speak of these things.
How rare it is to be born human, but how much rarer it is to be able to understand and see through that representational overlay back in time towards its origins.
And some living people still, both peoples, indigenous peoples and such, and some individuals are gifted.
But how can they possibly, those gifted individuals are going to have a terrifying struggle?
Because they're going to have to find a way to survive having preserved some aspect of the intelligence with which we acquire the representational overlay.
In a culture that effectively despises it and turns it into stuff, makes things that you can sell out of it.
So they might be born a brilliant musician or an artist or a dancer or a poet or an orator or an actor or something we don't even have a name for.
And the culture is going to want around them, it's going to first attack them, probably.
Although some of them will be immediately celebrated, which might be just as dangerous.
Because the thing that killed the originary mind is the thing that's celebrating your fame when you're famous.
So just be aware of that, right? That thing is not necessarily your friend.
And if the power of your imagination and your preservation of communion is significant enough, it will awaken the assassin in culture and the assassin will come for you.
We have lots of stories about this. Whether or not Jesus actually happened, Jesus is a story about this.
Martin Luther King is the guy we actually know. He lived, he's real. This is a story about this, right?
If you pose enough of a threat to the existing representational culture monster or monsters or however you want to think of it, they'll come for you, right?
They'll send the assassin or they'll produce an assassin. John Lennon is another example.
There are many. There are countless women whose names we don't even remember who were just obliterated because they embodied this originary consciousness, awareness, intelligence.
And some of those women were called witches, but it doesn't matter what they were called, they were assassinated.
And they were subjected to torture and so on and so forth.
One might argue that John F. Kennedy, a man who at least envisioned the end of prisons and a man who wasn't perfect and I'm not claiming he was messianic necessarily or anything,
but he was one of the most intelligent and insightful presidents.
Now there you've got a real problem because you've got the leader of the structured fiction we call our society seeing through that society.
That's really dangerous. And right now what we have is the opposite of that, yeah? In America anyway. We've got the direct opposite of that, right?
We've got a leader who actually embodies the lethal forgetting that our supercultures represent and the pinnacle of commodification.
Commodity overtakes value entirely and overtakes meaning and intelligence and humanity and everything.
Truth suddenly doesn't exist. Truthfulness doesn't exist. Truth itself is a very, very sophisticated and subtle thing.
But truthfulness doesn't exist anymore in the current presidential context in the United States.
The light, the rhythm of the patterns of light on water at sunrise or sunset.
Is one of the most primordial and essential examples of the entrance to everything.
I am so very grateful to have been able to have this time to share with you and learn together and to reflect on these things in my little birdwalk.
And I began with no real idea of where I was going.
So we don't always have to have a plan to make something meaningful or beautiful.
And hopefully I've awakened and reminded something essential in you.
And maybe you will return the favor in dreaming, in trance, in communion, in relationship.
Bye-bye for now. Thank you so much for joining me.
Thank you for watching.
