we travel through
to change our location.
We call it an entrance.
And it's very clear that our ancestors used trance
or something we would call this, though they did not, to travel.
And they used water, trees, phenomenon in the sky,
holes in trees or water or the earth
as beginning places.
The same way we might use a door or a gate.
There are many forms of trance
and some of them represent forms of intelligence our people have forgotten.
Not all of them require hypnosis.
Trance is something familiar to everyone.
As I mentioned, unfortunately, when people pay really close attention to their handheld devices,
they're entering a trance with machines.
And I would argue that this is lethal
because they're losing contact with their surroundings and their environment
and the living music and signals that could draw them into other forms of consciousness
far more profound than anything they can ever encounter
through the window of these light-emitting devices.
So there are many kinds of trance and there are many kinds of dreaming
and there are many aspects of waking awareness, not one.
These words are deceptive in that we think
a single word encompasses all the phenomenon.
It cannot, it shouldn't, we should resist that.
Most of us are trained in a very broken relationship
with language and meaning and identity.
And one of the people who I think is brilliant and profound
and also very difficult to understand
who can teach us about this is a man named Alfred Korzybski.
And Alfred Korzybski, and I think the 30s or 40s,
he wrote a number of books,
but in the 30s or 40s he wrote a book called Science and Sanity
which I first encountered when I was 17
and I encountered it because of the work of a
of a science fiction writer, A.E. Van Beau.
In Science and Sanity, Alfred Korzybski invites us
to explore features of language and thought that are lethal
and to, and by so doing to learn to escape them.
And I'm just, I'm not going to talk too much about him today.
But I am going to speak in a moment about a few specific pivots of his teaching.
But first I'd like you to see these Dawn Redwood trunks.
These are the trunks of trees that were damaged
by the fall of this tree here last year.
And these incredible organisms are the prehistoric ancestors of redwoods.
These are deciduous redwoods.
Their scientific Latinate name is really fun to say.
I'm hoping that these trees haven't been killed.
I think they have not.
I think we will, I will discover in the springtime what happens.
We will see what happens.
But their Latinate name is Metasequia glyptostreboides.
And these were believed to be extinct until some time I think in the 1800s
when a single living specimen was discovered alongside a temple in China.
If I remember the story correctly, the narrative discovered.
It's funny. Really, it was there the whole time.
I mean, and there may be others that have not yet been discovered.
But biologists believed that the species was extinct
because it was only known from fossils until this living tree was discovered.
And all of the trees that we know of, all of the living specimens of this tree
come from that one tree.
Korzybski, one of the important things that he asks us to question
is the is of identity.
That is a dream. That is a tree.
That is a frog.
Those are people.
These are ducks.
And what Korzybski wants us to understand
is that this is a lethal convenience.
It causes us to forget that the actual nature of identity is infinitely deep.
There's no way to properly encompass it.
He's famous for a cliché that the map is not the territory
by which he means the representation and the thing toward which it points
are staggeringly different.
The word duck is nothing like a duck.
It has almost nothing to do with the phenomenon toward which it points.
And the congruencies between the word and the concept,
because duck is an idea
that will have different meanings in different situations, even though it's a word.
There's very little congruence
between the pointer and the thing toward which it points.
The thing toward which it points might as well be a doorway to the entire universe.
It's infinitely rich in qualities.
It has no end of qualities.
If we started accounting them, we'd never finish.
Even if everyone did it all at once, we'd never get done.
Because anything is really anything we might imagine or look at or separate in consciousness,
anything we might distinguish in language or conception or modeling.
If we go to the thing that we are doing this to or with,
we will discover that it leads to everything.
And everything is transfinite in multiple ways.
It's not singularly transfinite.
It's endlessly, multiply transfinite.
So Korzybski asks us to remain aware that the is of identity is misleading.
Whatever a thing might be, it isn't what we think it is.
And it certainly isn't what we call it.
And it isn't our model of it.
And it isn't the species.
And it isn't the kind.
It isn't the genus.
These are all toys we've created in a representational layer on top of our awareness
that we've learned to transmit to each other generation to generation.
We keep transmitting this layer of ideation models, methods, categories, and so on.
Once upon a time, those may have been useful and powerful.
They're still powerful.
Those may have once been much more useful than they are today.
We may discover in time that we need to shed this representational layer
in order to make a space for something far more provocative and astonishing,
which as yet most of us are incapable of even imagining.
And I would suggest that this is likely.
And I would suggest that our ancestors were also aware.
Ancient peoples were aware of the incredible dangers of representational thought.
So that they kept that stuff away from ceremonial and ritual activity.
They kept that stuff away from it in the same way surgeons want to keep bacteria and germs out of the operating theater.
They recognized that representational thought, however useful it may be,
is lethally dangerous to an aspect of ourselves that is essential,
that is non-linguistic, that is beyond language,
that is related to song and also to trance.
To enter a place, we go through the entrance.
This is not an accident and there are many similar non-accidental hints throughout our language
about things that were once deeply understood, have now been forgotten,
and what we have are sort of the fossilized remains of understanding in our languages
and our habitual ways of referring to things conceptually and linguistically.
So Korzybski wanted us to deeply question the is of identity
and to notice that we are creatures who do this thing he calls time-binding,
which is to transfer the representational layer and habits and methods
and handicaps, disabilities that our existing cultures preserve and embellish.
We transfer these to our children and all of us underwent this process
and that is why you are able to understand the face noises I am making
in the language we call English.
Now if we remain aware that the things we refer to are not the names and ideas and concepts and models,
we have a very different form of intelligence.
If I know that I can say the word tree, but that's just a pointer to something infinitely profound,
a little bit of the lethal effect of representational cognition fades away.
And the more that I become aware that what I call things and how I think of things
is very different from those things themselves,
it gives me the option to touch the things themselves with my awareness
in a way that dismisses my knowledge, my representational knowledge.
And in that we have the opportunity to experience something like the opposite of the river Lethe.
The river of remembering, to remember, to draw into organismal union, communion,
to remember, to become remembered of and to remember ourselves and our nature
and the universe and time space and origin and being and love and essence and wonder and ecstasy.
These are things so rare in our time that many, many people will never know their natural sources
and instead will have to purchase them or purchase analogs of them.
They will buy commodities that will represent those essential aspects of our human nature and capacity
instead of touching and being remembered and remembering them together
in their moment to moment experience without recourse to drugs or electronics or
the commodities that stand between us and these things.
I know the word tree, but when I see the living being it refers to,
that being is infinitely hyper-connective with all of time space.
There is not really anything left out.
I can perceive it as a distinct organism in an ecology
but there is a fundamental aspect of our awareness and particularly our representational consciousness
that is so crucial that if we transform its meaning or if we just flip the polarity,
everything in our experience changes.
That fundamental aspect is the dichotomy which should not be a dichotomy.
I've made a little trap for myself accidentally here because I don't wish to present this as a dichotomy
and I'm not yet sure in the moment how not to do that or how to do something other than that.
But it's the dichotomy between distinctness and unity.
And if our awareness is oriented such that unity has precedence,
then the idea of distinctness is merely something we can play with.
But the polarity for most of us is set during the process of our being enculturated and in language as children,
the polarity is set on the other side, it's set on separation, it's set on distinction.
So that we think of things, right?
We think of the tree as a distinct thing, being, object, idea,
when in fact in the consciousness of unity it is an expression of all,
it's a unique, it's an entrance, right, it's an entrance to everything.
And anything that we might distinguish is thus.
From the perspective of unity, all things are expressions of a fundamental relationship.
No, it's so hard to put this in language worse.
I'm so used to the language of distinction, we don't really have good language about unity.
That we have words, you know, like community and things like this, and communion.
From the perspective of unity, all things are local expressions of the nature of origin being,
translocal identity, relational intelligence, communion, exchange, symbiosis.
So that fundamentally what you have on earth, of course it doesn't end at the edges of the earth,
it's all of time space, and even beyond that to things we have no concept for yet.
But essentially earth is one organism, one, first, first everything is one.
Then it's possible to think of things as being distinct.
But we should understand why we're doing that, why we're choosing that,
and we should have volitional, the volitional ability to move back to the perception of unity,
not just the idea of it, the almost electrical power of the direct perception of unity.
And when we have these experiences, the result is unlike anything you can imagine.
It's a form of intelligence that our people must have once had
that probably our representational cultures were born for, or excuse me, from,
but then were quickly overpowered by it, and the same thing happened to us as children, the same story,
the story of the fall, the story of Adam and Eve eating from the tree of knowledge.
These are stories of something that happened to each of us in childhood.
We started out with the mind of unity, I suggest, and I suggest this because I have memories of it,
not because it's a theory that I like.
So we started out with this mind of unity, and we were trained to use an aspect of our imagination
to make cuts in that unity, to distinguish.
And notice the likeness between this word distinguish and a word that we're all familiar with, extinguish.
To make the light go away, to make the heat, the warmth go away, to extinguish.
So there was something alive in which we participated at birth that was so intelligent
that it had the power to acquire the representational overlay from any culture we might land in.
Even the culture of dogs.
Even the culture of another intelligence from another world.
We have the capacity inherently to acquire that representational overlay,
but the aspect of our imaginations and minds that have this ability are usually essentially killed by it.
They are extinguished.
