So, what I want to communicate about is that we have the wrong idea, or we have a deceptive and disabling idea, a crippling idea, about what it is to participate in consciousness.
None of us possesses a mind.
It's not something...
You can only know its features if you enforce a structure you are familiar with in isolation.
And this is what most of us are taught to do.
I think in general men much more than women, though I may be wrong, and that would be different in different places and different situations and different times.
But yesterday I was practicing forming a mind with another person in a conversation, and the results were both astonishing and beautiful and reassuring.
And they demonstrated aspects of the nature of consciousness, the non-ordinary nature of consciousness, that I have long been familiar with and have experienced, but have only very uncommonly experienced for quite some time.
And that was very reassuring because I know very well that minds are something we make together, so that when we are with others, we can insist on the features and faculties, senses, beliefs, opinions, orientations, habits, demands, assertions, and so on, that we are used to, that are comfortable to us, that are familiar to us.
Just as we might do in isolation, we can do this when we are with others, when we are in conversation, when we are purposefully coming together.
And this is what the majority of us most commonly do, it seems, at least let us say a large faction of us commonly do this.
We protect the familiar structure of an array of habits and orientations, beliefs, positions, assertions, refutations, arguments, so on.
Rather than what I would describe as forging a mind together with another for purposes upon which we agree,
and exploring the opportunities that are natural to our human consciousness.
And I want to assure you those opportunities are astonishingly more rich and diverse than anything we have been led to expect,
and that they are so near at hand that any one of us at any time, given another with whom we can share,
can experience aspects of consciousness that have been relegated to the dusty libraries of myth, and perhaps religion.
So I'm going to suggest to you that forming a mind with another being, and that can happen with animals, that can happen with a living place,
that can happen with trees, that can happen with plants, with insects, in fact.
I would like to suggest to you that if you really want to test some of the capacities of your mind, of consciousness that you can participate in,
some of the most peculiar opportunities exist when we are willing to touch the world of the very small,
because to a creature such as a bee, or a mouse, or a common housefly,
the power of the mind of an animal as complex as a human being is enormous, right?
It's the difference between, you know, a beach ball and a bee bee.
You have a gigantic brain, you have a gigantic body, compared to a bee, your body might as well be a mountain, compared to, say, a moose, or an elk, or something, right?
So I want to encourage you to experiment, because our minds are not meant to exist in isolation,
and when they are forced into this habit, this pattern, in a sense we become prisoners.
We become prisoners of the structures with which we have become familiar, and to which we have become habituated.
But our capacities form minds together, and what I mean by this is as if each mind is a wing,
and as you can imagine, a wing flopping around on the ground is not particularly interesting,
but should a bird appear between two separate wings, they now have the capacity for flight,
and other astonishing things to see from above, to rise above the flat terrain to which the lone wings are habituated.
When we form minds together, we can create entirely other forms of consciousness, attention, awareness, sensing, intelligence, faculties,
abilities to see and do and perceive and participate in things which would otherwise, to us, seem impossible.
And it is our nature to have these experiences.
This is part of what children are doing when they're engaged in the activity we call play,
but for most of the adults, they believe, and it is their experience that a mind is a stable, static possession.
I assure you this is not the case.
In fact, I would suggest that if we were to attempt to quantify what's going on with consciousness,
99% of it is something other than individual beings possessing minds.
Most of what is accessible to us, most of the fascinating and awe-inspiring potentials lie in producing the third position.
Between us, we create a new position that neither of us can inhabit alone.
From that new position, we acquire new abilities, insights, senses, purposes, and understandings.
It's wonderful when we can do this in direct proximity with each other, that's extremely powerful,
but many astonishing features of what I'm speaking about are available to us in any situation where we can communicate,
and much more so, vastly more so, when we can hear each other's voices.
I encourage you to experiment with leaving the cage of the mind that you are familiar with,
the mind you think of as your possession, the mind you think of as yourself,
because in my experience, that is the tiniest aspect of consciousness or self, and it's a trap.
And it's a trap that our cultures and our situations and our modernity has recursively reinforced
to such an extent that very few people are any more aware of the actual nature
and profound variability and dynamism of our consciousness, our intelligence, our humanity.
That consciousness is so vast and so dynamic and unimaginably ancient.
It has faculties that make the ideas associated with psychism seem trivial.
Our actual nature and potential is so far beyond anything, any of the stories we've been presented with,
that if you were to get just a momentary taste of it, it would obliterate the entire history of stories you've ever encountered.
And I'm hoping that perhaps in this time when we are no longer so astonishingly distracted
or subjugated to and by the functions we must fulfill in our modern lives
to sustain our shelters and our food supplies and our capacity to receive medical care,
we have a unique opportunity here to not only explore the lost aspects of our humanity to establish new terrain together.
And I say to you, my fellow human beings, that that terrain, that potential,
surpasses anything we are capable of imagining prior to having the direct experience of it.
It is wildly beyond our common thoughts, beliefs and ideas so far beyond
that, again, where we'd have a direct experience of what I'm speaking of, those things would be obliterated.
Something scared our people a long time ago.
It scared us so badly that we stopped practicing the relational and cognitive and imaginal intimacies of which we are naturally capable.
Perhaps in this time some of us can not only escape that old trap,
we can establish new terrain far beyond what we are used to and familiar with,
far beyond what we are ordinarily capable of believing.
And if a few of us can go there and sort of gain a foothold there,
we will be able to invite many others into new ways of knowing, new ways of being human,
new ways that are actually ancient, exquisite, intelligent, ecstatic, humane, liberating.
So I think we form minds together, and when we do that creatively, the possibilities are infinite.
I look forward to pursuing this topic more deeply in future videos,
but I thought it might be nice to introduce it today because I had such an unexpectedly beautiful and important
and accidental experience of this yesterday with someone very dear to me who I had not heard from in a long, long time.
And we had experiences during this conversation of clairvoyance and all kinds of unusual and beautiful phenomenon.
Ah, the bats are out very early tonight. I'm very happy to see them.
So we will pursue this topic again soon. Thank you so much for your attention, for joining me.
Please feel free to share my video or to ask questions or comment,
but I very deeply hope that you will have the opportunity to directly experience what I am speaking of and not merely think about it.
It is not enough to consider my words. I speak of the potential of enacting them,
and this, it is my hope, is what we shall be able to pursue together in this very unusual and opportunistic moment in human history.
Thank you. All blessings to you and those you love, those who love you. May you be well. Bye-bye for now.
Thank you.
