Hey everybody. Thanks for joining me.
It's really, uh, alive in a very unique way in this garden.
The people who designed the garden
made little modules to represent the flora of different places around the globe, countries, continents.
And it's a strange experiment.
But a beautiful one.
In a way, the plants here are in cages of a kind.
Because of course the humans tend them.
It's actually the wrong word.
Exactly. Well, they partly tend them, but they constrain the organisms.
They shape how they're allowed to grow or not grow.
They trim them.
They dig them up and compost them.
They cut them down for all different reasons in all different times.
And although, you know, there are bees here, some still,
most of the natural simiaunts for the species that aren't native here are missing.
So a lot of the relationships in which these plants developed, with which these plants developed,
their relational envelope or space, the living water of their relationships,
in the places they come from, is missing pretty much entirely.
Their natural pollinators and all of the symbiotic organisms including bacteria in the soil, so on.
So they're sort of in relational outer space.
And the gardens peculiar in all kinds of ways.
You can imagine if you plant a garden, like this one, where you arrange modules of the organisms from different continents.
The Dawn Redwoods.
Well, this family of redwoods has suffered because a large tree fell and damaged the littlest one very severely.
And this one pretty badly and took about half of that tree out.
And this oldest one was mostly unharmed.
It's changing golden.
So you can imagine with me, here's one of the signs that'll give you an idea of what I'm talking about.
So you can see that South Africa's over there, New Zealand, Southeast Asian cloud forest.
Hopefully you can see that.
I can't tell what the camera's pointing at because if I turn the camera away from my face, I can't see it.
So there's all these little zones, right, and they contain representative species, so to speak.
As the humans think about such things.
And they're all together in a large fenced-in area.
In the middle, well, not exactly in the middle, at one of the edges of a metropolis.
The absolute opposite of this garden, right?
If there were an opposite of a living place, it's a city.
I mean, outer space is fairly good, too.
And a city is a kind of outer space. It's a vacuum, in a sense, where the domination of structure, machines, humans, behaviors, devices.
And particularly the humans, right, since this is the whole idea of a city is their idea.
The humans decide what will be allowed to live or not in the city.
And they start by killing down the context to next to nothing.
That's sort of the first move. This is interesting.
Is there a nest here?
So, hmm, that's really a lot of scat.
So you can see my shadow.
Oh, this is actually more complex than it seems.
You can see my shadow.
And there's a bunch of bird scat here.
And by the way, this is relevant.
But this bird scat, there's a lot of it, right?
What is this?
That's pretty obvious.
So looking up, you know, to where the scat probably came from, I don't easily discern a nest yet.
But along with the birds, you know, bird scat, which there's a lot of it, and it's big and white, there's old coyote scat right there.
I'm hoping I'm getting this on the camera correctly.
And there's more, there's like a trail here.
But some of these...
No, this all looks like coyote scat, I think.
Oh, here's a...
A stellar jerry.
Off to cash something.
So yeah, this is a really complex thing, and I can see some older scat marks.
Here.
You know, people will wonder, why is Darren so interested in shit?
But I'm a lot more interested in shit than most of what's in the city, because shit tells stories.
And this is relevant because it's possible to learn things in the garden that it is impossible to learn in the city, that are impossible to learn.
In fact, there's a profound polarity, a polarization, right?
Between the world just outside the fence, and the world inside the fence.
And some of the things that aren't allowed to exist out there, pour into here, as if this were a little shining light of refuge, right?
And opportunity for survival in a context where just about everything else is killed down to near-invisibility.
Now, there are exceptions, but it's so severe that the once pretty much mostly healthy bee population has been experiencing waves and waves of decimation for many, many years now.
A good 15 anyway, which in bee time might as well be, I don't know, a thousand years? A lot of time.
Now see, here's another interesting thing about shit.
So let me see if I can make sure I get this on the camera.
Now, that could be coyote shit. If so, it's some pretty healthy coyote shit.
It looks a bit more like dog to me.
But what I want to make clear about that shit is that it's oriented almost directly north.
The animal that left that was somehow viscerally sensing is likely to have had a visceral sense of direction.
And some natural inclination to orient itself.
And the animals are extremely oriented in their environments and moments, unlike most of us.
And so there's all kinds of stories and worlds one can see into
by paying very careful attention to actual shit in an actual living place.
I don't just learn about the animals and things above my head that I would never know were up there, even if I'm looking.
I learned things about their relationships and their health, their awareness, their timing, their choice of a place.
The place they chose to nest or leave scat when they did it, approximately.
It's an astonishingly complex source of information.
And the more different ways I'm interested in it,
the more profound the experiences and sensings and relationships
that will result from me paying attention and why I'm paying attention and how I'm paying attention.
Because I'm not merely paying attention clinically.
I'm paying attention in a way that is reverent, if I might.
Hello?
Oh.
Hi.
Uh oh, something's going on here.
Hi.
Yeah.
Hey.
Hi.
Hi.
Hi.
Hi.
Hi.
Hi.
Hi.
Hi.
Hi.
Hi.
Hi.
Hi.
Hi.
Hi.
Hi.
Hi.
Hi.
Hi.
Hi.
Hi.
Hi.
Hi.
Hi.
Hi.
Hi.
Hi.
Hi.
Hi.
Hi.
Hi.
Hi.
Hi.
Hi.
Hi.
Hi.
Hi.
Hi.
Hi.
go on a long dissertation, but I had another path in mind, so perhaps I'll return.
Signs of life, signs of change, they help us, they help me understand
what it is to be human, but what, by being human, is possible, a direction beyond my
ordinary, familiar humanity. And when I'm paying attention to scat, where and when
it appears, what's in it, its orientation, its shape, of course I didn't have to
dissect it to pay attention to what's in it, but I might do that under some
circumstances. I'm not just there clinically though, my clinical intelligence is
very sharp, right? But that's not what's leading me.
What's leading me is something very difficult to describe, but a deep,
passionate curiosity to become engaged and involved and to participate in the
language of living beings, which is not a language, it's relationships, but there
are sort of recognizable, they're not languages, there are signs, yeah? Signs
would be closer, but the signs in nature are profoundly rich, they're, they're
alive, they're pre-denuded, like in the way the garden is in comparison to the
city. Language is in comparison to the signs in nature, right? Language is like
the city of perspectives, I'll call them, but they're mostly little tools that
become traps. Out here you've got something absolutely authentic, right?
Trustworthy in the deepest way, and infinitely, provocatively, these are like
flowers that have, that blossom in different dimensions of sensing, knowledge,
understanding, participation. See, we don't have word for what I just said in
English, and so when I say that, it sounds ridiculous. But what I mean is, if our human
minds and intelligences are like the hummingbirds and the bees, and they're,
they're seeking the nectar of knowledge and relationship and meaningful understanding
and participation. This is natural to me, I think, at least to many, and the
signs in nature when one is present, not just in thinking or in taking pictures,
but urgently, passionately. These signs are like an orchard that has a thousand
domains of, of different kinds of nectar for, for different aspects of
understanding and, and amnesis, to remember the self, to remember the self within the
world of phenomenon, to remember before the self, right? Before the collapse to a
specific self, there is something there, I don't know what it is. And in fact, it's
there now. But to get back to my, my point, I want to highlight the polarity between
the city and this living place. And I want to highlight that polarity for all
cities in all living places. Because wherever humans make settlements, most
things die, with the exception of what I was going to mention earlier, the synanthropes,
right? The, the organisms that manage somehow, at usually a great peril, to symbios
with our developments, right? And these are old, mostly very old companions to our
species. Animals like mice, rats, raccoons, skunks, opossums, rabbits. I'm gonna, I won't
be able to complete the list, but you get the idea. The corvids, right? Blue jays, crows,
ravens, magpies, some songbirds, sparrows, pigeons, seagulls. You can see all of these
animals, they are used to being around, sort of surviving as opportunists in, as my
friend, Ryan First Diver says, in the urban environment, right? And I had an
experience of this yesterday with a raven. So I've got to be careful not to
birdwalk, however, because I'm gonna have too many, too many branches on the tree
in my mind. So there's this powerful polarity, right? And one of the things
that means is that a living place like this one, which is created, essentially, by
humans, this, now this used to be a living place, but of a very different kind. It
used to be sand dunes. In fact, this whole area used to be sand dunes.
I'm coming to the Toy River.
Children have a great time here, but even I do. This thing is so profoundly
reminiscent of how I used to play with water when I was a kid. Oh, running water.
What an incredible thing. So there's a boundary, right? Here's the boundary. This
is new higher-tech fencing to ensure people can't get in over the previously
rather decrepit cyclone fencing. There's a boundary, and you can see that there's
actually, right, more than just the fence. There's kind of dead terrain on both sides
of the boundary, right? That tree got killed to reinforce the boundary because
they couldn't install the fence with the tree there, so they killed it. So there's
a boundary, and then inside here, there's something like inner space, right? The
interiority of being, the interiority of my essence, the interiority of my
humanity, is easily recognized here in this place, and that's why shit matters. Signs
matter to me, right? And matter is a slight gloss on the old Greek meter from
other. M other. It's a really interesting little construct, but I need to stay on
topic. I'm aware of that. I'm well aware of that construct. So in this garden, life is pouring
