My goodness.
Aren't you bold?
Are you like Mr. Bravado today?
Is that the deal?
One more peanut?
What's that happening?
Is there anything in that?
Yeah it is.
Yeah, that den was not there yesterday.
And that means the coyote has detected something that made it change its den overnight.
And that coyote laid on that.
That's the first time I saw the coyote.
It did not look happy, and it laid on that pile of dirt for a while.
And this is the other side of the pile.
But that hole in there is a den.
And one of the things about that earth.
The coyote was laying on the earth because of two things.
One it is soft, and the other it is warm, and it needed heat.
And the last night was quite cold, and that mound, while it's very sort of crumbly,
if you can dig a hole in it, if it's moist enough that you can dig a hole in it,
and make a nest in there.
It's like insulation.
And it's warm, the earth warms it a bit, it probably holds some warmth.
But you see, I know about the dirt pile because I know about the coyote.
And I visited the dirt pile yesterday, so I know that it changed overnight.
I paid attention to the signal a little bit.
It wasn't perfect, but I'm really in the place.
To me, deep space is interesting.
And if it's possible to, you know, push a button and be on another planet,
I'm all down with that, to some degree.
But this place is all the worlds, all of them.
They're here. They're represented here by the living beings here.
And so if we keep looking far away, far away, as the humans always do,
we're going to overlook the most essential things that are actually...
One way of thinking about them is that the source of our interiority is their gift to us.
The gift of their being produces our interiority.
The possibility of having that interiority, because certainly without them,
whatever we might have would be a terrifying impoverishment indeed.
Thankfully, there are still trees and plants and animals here.
And I am deeply aware that if I point my finger to the sky in any direction,
and you follow that path for a thousand light years,
you'll probably never encounter these.
There might be life in space, but most of space is empty of our kind of life,
of biological life.
And it's extremely unfriendly to life.
Our world's a paradise.
We're like the other planets.
Who's making this signal?
It's a woodpecker.
A tree pair of woodpeckers.
It's feasting on something inside the tree limb.
Time, orientation, location, moon time, sun time,
color, consistency, frequency, shape, relationships.
I miss the frogs in this little pond.
Hope against hope they might somehow return.
When you go to the body of a living place,
there's a visceral silence inside us with which we can listen to its communications.
And if we're there with and for it, it will communicate.
All the living beings understand relation,
and humans are an incredibly unique opportunity for plants and animals and insects
to affect the world of humans and worlds beyond their own that are nonetheless proximal to their own.
The world of the behaviors of the humans is alien and fraught with astonishing peril
to most of the living beings.
And when there's not peril, there's isolation, cages, house plants in a pot,
a microbiome or imported microbiome.
There's not polarity between city and inner world.
We need very much, I think, I need for certain.
I don't want to be really in the other.
I don't want to be in the construct world.
I want to be in this world.
I'm old and need shelter and many reasons why I can't just come live here.
But my heart lives here.
And something like my shadow lives over there.
Or a kind of a shadow.
I didn't mean that in Freudian terms.
Living places make different kinds of silences and these silences carry communications.
And every time I come here, there's an adventure.
Because there's an exchange, there's a conversation.
And for me, it renews my soul.
It refreshes my spirit.
It reminds me of the incredible gifts that our bodies
and lives and relationships.
The sacrifices and histories that gave birth to them.
Still alive here today with us as us in relationships.
If we're aware of it.
In the depth of the living place, it stands in stark contrast to the shallowness of the city.
Though if you like what the humans do, in general, then perhaps you'll prefer the city.
Still got my escort.
We're like our species, a little dream bubble that the bubbling ocean of life on Earth
gave birth to as one of its children.
And everything on Earth knows this.
But we are the newer children.
We're the vulnerable children.
Our machines are a madness in the animal species.
And I don't know how the living beings in places conceive of us.
But they learn physically that in general our people are very dangerous.
And we'll kill them or obliterate their homes or their children or their futures, including our own futures.
Because all the futures of the living beings are bound together in a woven union.
And the humans will dispose of this for the most trivial or non-existent of reasons or ideas.
So, you know, they learn by direct physical encounter of this.
It's not like they have to have an idea, though there might be.
I suspect, I sort of believe, I guess I'd say, in the networks of the minds of the living beings.
Or the mind-like aspects of the living beings.
And I think of them as altogether first.
And only then can we make cuts in that and say, well, no, these are the animals, these are the plants, these are the microorganisms, these are the humans.
I want you.
One of the other topics I was hoping to explore, but it's too late now, I'll mention it nonetheless.
Whatever idea has become popular in some specific segment of humanity about whether or not minds connect.
Because either, you know, some people sort of literally minded will say, one of two things obtains.
Either the only way that minds communicate is proximally.
Unless they send signals across the gap, formally, like a telephone call or a text or an email or something.
A letter, God forbid.
So there's either an obvious physical communication or there's no communication there.
Those people are isolated individuals.
Or, so that's sort of a materialist, localized materialist model of mind.
And that presumes that the mind is local to the person, which is something I don't presume.
Though something mind-like, you know, is something about the person is important, to put it mildly.
Or, you know, telepathy is possible.
And telepathy is a very valuable word.
So what I want to say is what we presently, what is commonly known about the ways that minds connect and they form networks,
it should be obvious, our networks are abstractions of this, our television stations are abstractions of this,
our radio stations are abstractions of this, they form networks.
Living beings form networks and minds are a network phenomenon, they're not a local phenomenon.
Don't get a mind unless you belong to a network and are raised in a network and embody that network in your mind and so on and so forth.
At least not a mind like, you know, we usually think of one.
So either there's absolutely no non-ordinary connection between minds or something else, telepathy, something more than telepathy.
Whatever it might be, whatever we commonly know and suspect, particularly scientifically, about minds is extremely limited in minds and how they connect.
You know, there's a lot of noise about science essentially proves that telepathy isn't going on.
No, it didn't.
The scope and the focus is confused.
There's all kinds of problems with that whole idea, actually, because there are features of things that humans do and are
that shy away from testing and in clinicity, right?
They won't show up for it, but they're immediately present in intimate contexts, right?
And so you would have to look for them very carefully there rather than do a bunch of clinical things about something that's an aspect of intimacy.
Certainly, if you're going to share minds, there's intimacy.
And it's the people that we are intimate with that we have the most experience of something resembling mind sharing or telepathy.
But what I want to say is what the idea is that we have right now, it's as if we've discovered two of the plants on earth, right?
Because what actually goes on with minds is endlessly more sophisticated than anything we were capable of imagining or modeling.
But we can participate in it.
That crow just dropped a big branch on the ground.
We don't have to know the answer to participate.
This is the really fascinating thing.
Children and those who are fascinated or in love participate instantaneously, right?
They just fall into participation.
We adults might have more trouble, might have to cultivate a vehicle for us to allow ourselves to participate deeply in the intimacies of the networks of minds.
And they are ecstatically beautiful.
And like the living places in there, astonishing diversity and transformation over time.
Thank you.
