into this garden that's been evicted from all around the garden, and the presence of
the essence of life is pouring into this garden, and the animals and plants and insects here
are, there's so many things I want to say about them, in one sense they're heroic. They're here
embodying the livingness of the world, and even from other countries like New Zealand and Africa
and South, other continents, South America, very specific places in California or Mexico have
representatives here, representative species, right? Meaning species that embody the lineages
and relationships of their origin places over all of time, but now they're living here, and those
are like, how can I say, can I make this clear? So on the one hand it's like a little United
Nations of Flora, right? Where they all send representatives and come together, and that's
pretty astonishing. It's a very rare kind of thing, though you find it in botanical gardens and
curated places that humans have made. It's so profound, because if you kill up a bunch of
terrain, but you leave one little living place in the middle, that living place becomes like a beacon.
And, oh, wow, a vole. I wasn't expecting a vole all of a sudden.
And so, to enter that place is like to enter the body of a being, a being of vast intelligence and
an incredible age, a being of astonishing diversity, and a being of urgency, because if there were
any place around here where nature is much more likely to speak to a human being, like me, this
is it. So, and of course by speak I don't mean make face noises, I mean make signs. And it's not
like I think of the living place as a person. It's not like that at all. It's, sorry. There's no, it's a
non-ordinary being in the sense that there is no, that we have neither a category in English nor a
word that would appropriately inform us about the basic category to which this being belongs. So,
even though it's entirely ordinary, it's profoundly non-ordinary. In the sense that, again, we don't
have categories about that. That's a really interesting situation that I'll leave aside for the
moment. So, this is a rich environment of relational exchange, of memory, of inner space,
and it's impossible to see everything, the environments infinitely deep. But if I'm in the
garden in a way that recognizes some of these things, not so much consciously, but relationally,
that enacts them relationally, then the garden and I certainly have a conversation. And all of the
creatures in the garden, some of their signs I will see. And some of them I will meet. And some of
them we will have an exchange, a transfer. I may give the Blue Jays peanuts, they may give me
knowledge. They will show me things I otherwise cannot see, because by caring about them, I become
interested in them. And if I become interested in them, I become curious about them. And if I,
realize that the Blue Jay isn't an ordinary phenomenon at all in terms of human knowledge and
language, that it's wildly outside the entire scope of human knowledge and language, because it's a
living being, then I have very good reason to be interested in the Blue Jay. It will show me
where I can't see, where I haven't seen, where I've been blinded, where the cage overcame my passion
and inspiration and wonder and awe and love, where the words killed off the experience.
Blue Jay will show me many things, but also it's not merely utilitarian to have a Blue Jay
companion, is to have new wings inside my heart. And to have the companion, we don't have to be
together all the time, we can visit. Now it's not as easy for me to be directly engaged with,
for example, the coyotes, but they send signals all the time in scat. And so too the raptors,
owls and hawks, casseroles, the polarity. Now you know, it's not only in living places,
the signs in the cities too of living beings are very important and are part of the language and
are a special part of the language. But if you want to better understand or read the signs of
living beings in cities, you'll be profoundly aided by, you know, going to a place where the
signs are profuse, though at first it's confusing and hard to determine what exactly to pay attention
to unless you already have a map of some kind. This is a really amazing, there's a few really
old amazing stumps here and this is one of them. There's some fungus growing on it, even in the
cracks. It's beautiful. I once saw a raptor had made a kill and this whole stump was just covered
in feathers. And this is one of the paths that the coyotes trod at night. And so, you know,
the parks department has become very concerned about the fact that there are coyotes here.
There were a few, now there's more, now there's open dens and there've been some encounters and such.
So the parks department has put up this game cam and it's pretty obvious. It says SFRPD on the top,
right? It's pretty obvious they intend to do something to the coyotes and it's very difficult
for me to imagine that it will be good. And evicting wildlife and they probably don't do much about
dens out in the park unless there's some kind of serious problem. But the dens in the garden
present a peculiar conflict and the conflict is common and it's between the curation, you know,
the people who structure the garden and their purposes and a lot of them aren't very good.
But some of them are amazing and living beings that try to take refuge here,
which is certainly the absolutely natural thing to do, right? Like if you're an animal,
you almost certainly prefer to be in here than you would to be out there on the other side of
the barrier. And in fact, as an animal, I would vastly prefer to be in here than out there,
which is part of why I'm in here now. Oh, hmm.
It's got some spiny hairs, but I don't think it's likely to be dangerous.
Let's see. Just want to get it off of the path. I could guard it for a while, I suppose.
I wonder if it will crawl onto a leaf. Yes, it will. That will let me safely transport it
to somewhere better than the path there. Now, of course, I can't be sure that that actually helped
the creature, but at least if it's on the road, right, and there's people around which there are,
probably better not to be on the road. I think it's relatively well defended from predators.
Most of them anyway. So this living place is like a fountain for me. And I can't say all of the
different kinds of water that are here. But I can say that when I listen, care, and pay attention.
And if I'm willing, particularly, I mean, here's a peculiar thing. I speak to my people, right,
the humans, some humans, at least, possible humans, imagined humans when I'm making a video,
imagined future humans, with respect and care and awe about the garden. So in a way, I am in the
between, right, of the garden and the humans, and of the living places and the humans, and of the
animals and the humans, to some degree, because I speak for them, and am for them in my heart,
in my thought. And not because of a belief. It's not a belief. No, it's intimacy.
Kissing has nothing to do with a belief. If you're kissing with someone and you both are in it,
right? It's a whole new dimension of being and a being, the symptomacy. And all other things for a
moment fade away because the wonder of the kiss is magical and perhaps infinitely deep.
And that's how it is in the garden. It's intimacy. And out there, beyond the old fence,
even all throughout the park are roads, and you can see all the cars park.
So the park is a refuge, but it's still inside a city.
And that, one way to think about that is that it supercharges the signaling environment of any
living, like any place that's allowed to be alive nearby. And weirdly, some of those places
more in the past than today used to be backyards, what we call backyards.
A little fenced off, you know, there's like a cell structure, right? Imagine a city block.
And imagine the city blocks first surrounded by automobiles, which all of them here are.
And then there's cement. Well, actually, they're surrounded by asphalt, then automobiles,
then cement, then houses, then with some fences. And then in the center of that structure,
right in the center, there's these little squares of living places.
Right? For some, you know, and some of them anyway, that we call backyards.
And it's kind of like a cell surrounded by viruses.
There's all this weird, deadly structure. And then in the very center, there's a little bit of life
is sometimes allowed. But those two become supercharged signaling environments because
you don't get the signals where the living beings don't go, where the living beings aren't.
At least if you get them, let's say they're vastly subtler, right? In general.
Whereas in a living place, the signs stand out.
The environment is much richer and much more diverse.
Insects, plants, animals, weather, humans. Mixing it up.
And this is why, for me,
there's something better than a book. There's something meta to books
that has the quality of being alive.
So,
There's something better than books, and it's more than merely books.
And it's more than merely alive in living beings and their relationships.
In fact, if you want to put something at the tree of categories, you don't necessarily
have to get the exact correct thing.
What you want is something that's really good and better than most of the other stuff you've
got, or maybe all of it.
And if you want to put at the roots of identity, if you want to put one idea, one of the reasonably
good choices is relationships.
What's actually going on?
What's going on?
Relationships are going on.
And those things are unimaginably, they're infinitely complex, even the smallest ones.
Take the relationships in, let's say, funny you can't see my facial expressions, take
the relationships in, you know, ten seconds of the life of a cell, right?
You'll never encompass them.
There might be more information there than humans have ever processed.
Because weirdly, and this is the weird thing with identity, and this is part of what I'm
trying to say about the living place inside the city.
Oops.
Little foot slip.
Everything outside of us has infinite relationships.
Everything has infinite relationships.
There's nothing that doesn't.
In fact, there's probably layered infinities of different kinds of relationships that actually
sort of appear over some span of time, what we refer to as time, as, you know, Darren
or that hummingbird or this tree.
And it's the same inside us and outside us.
There's like different kinds of infinities.
There's the interior infinities, and what we can think of as the exterior infinities,
but we really don't know much about the relationships between those two things, even though they're
bounded by my, you know, by the envelope of my body and such.
That's not the end of them, however.
And I'm chasing a thread that's evasive here of have patience with me.
So what I was saying is, without, even in physics, what we actually, I don't think we
can talk about any one thing by itself unless it's related to something else.
So it's not just that things and beings and processes and so on can be understood as,
you know, relational networks.
It's that we use relationships.
Relationships are what we see with is one way of saying it, right?
Inside the garden, inside the garden.
So it's not a bad candidate for the top of, you know, as a toy for the top of the tree
of what is everything, right?
It's relationships.
And that's a very general, simple term.
It doesn't convey anything too particular.
It just lets us know that all of our experience depends on relative, on the space between
us and all other phenomenon.
Oh, that's what I was chasing.
Okay.
So there's a concept that's used in some branches of science, perhaps chemistry.
And even though this isn't the actual definition of it, I'm going to give a gloss that a molecular
biologist I know once presented to me.
When he said something resembling, it's impossible to know the state of the molecule.
What you can know is half the state.
You can know the state of the molecule locally to itself.
But since the other half exists in relational space and that space is probably layered
infinities deep, you will never know the molecule, right?
You've only got, you've got the part of the molecule that you can touch with your way
of looking and you've got what added to that, whatever you can discern about relationships
in the environment, but that's going to be very minute.
And so this idea changes what it means to be a thing, right?
And that's a root class in our languages, thingness, a very important root class that
we often misuse.
So any changes to that are very radical.
They will change all the other features of our lexicon.
It's such a, it's such a rude idea that if that, if what we mean by thing changes, it
changes everything, right?
Everything.
And the way it changes is, is to assert that the local phenomenon you see while it is itself
layered infinities inwardly, most, one way of looking at it is that, that most of the
local thing is, is the, the sort of ambassador, if you will, of its relationships, right?
And if you think deeply about this, you'll probably find few situations in which this
is not so, including unexpected things like forks and sentences and really, you know,
all the way down.
It's not the only perspective.
I'm not, you know, we don't want to collapse the frame.
Something got into me.
That was a really frightening experience.
So that was just an absolutely natural moment of pure reaction, right?
A bee got trapped in the mask and maybe even saw it, I don't know.
And the mask amplified the buzzing sound in my ear, right?
So I was like, out of there, it could have been a fly actually, I don't know.
So let's just ask a question about something ridiculous, these pots.
Are these pots more the objects in front of me?
Or is more of their actual nature in all the processes required to produce and transport
and get them here and, you know, form them from what we call resources?
So where is most of the pot?
Is it in the pot or the relationships?
And the answer, of course, is both in different ways, important ways.
But our idea of thing mostly excludes the relational body of thingness, and it's really
easy to do that with objects.
It's a lot easier with objects, but it's much more difficult with living beings because
we are living beings too, and there's something in us that recognizes when we're chopping
up the living beings or obliterating them or making cities or whatever that we're defecting
from essential necessities of our organismal and animalian and human natures and relationships
and lineages of ancestral relationships and on and on and on.
So the phenomenon of the scat is a presentation body, right, for a vast field of relationships.
And that makes it an incredibly interesting sign to me.
