I pay attention very closely to this.
Perhaps not as closely as I'd like to, but closely nonetheless.
It's quiet here for a moment.
There's all kinds of noise, I mean new kinds of noise every day.
In new dimensions, we've got electromagnetic noise, we have sonic noise, we have luminal
noise, we have light noise, all different new kinds, some of which are horrible.
There's unimaginable chemical noise.
The body becomes absolutely disoriented in the chemistries that we present it with in
cities because the body is at this scale a human, but at the microscopic scale it's
a cellular hyper structure and it's a marriage of many, well, maybe a few fundamental cell
types or microorganism types as viruses, bacteria, animal cells.
And perhaps stuff we don't know about because I'm not sure our catalog is complete by any
stretch of the imagination or even that we cut the catalog in the right places or in
good places.
Can we make better cuts is actually what I'm saying and I'm sure we can.
Categories are a very troubling aspect of the inheritance that we get because where
those categories are, unfortunately we inherit the errors of our forebears when we inherit
their category set.
Their confusions and their omissions and their intentional exclusions come along with the
way they've set up categories in language and thought and concept.
So we can't throw those away.
That wouldn't be the right move, but we can preserve the awareness that the categories
are broken, damaged, come with dangerous, sometimes malware included.
They might incline us to think about organisms, relationships, situations, phenomenon in
ways that would be more crippling than they are helpful if we're not aware of that.
If we're aware of that, we can use the categories we've inherited where they're useful.
We can see beyond them together.
Yeah, that sounds real to me.
Yeah, we can see beyond them together.
We can learn where they're broken.
He can make those calls with his mouth full.
That's an interesting thing that I find somewhat surprising.
We can actually add categories and correct or grow features of the categories we inherit
so that they're no longer so blinding, crippling where they are.
Where they aren't, we can use them.
We can keep one wing in the common human stuff and one wing beyond it.
That wing beyond is very important.
You don't want to collapse down into any system of knowledge or description of meaning or
identity or relation.
Here's some kind of old scat that contains berry seeds or fruit seeds.
That's from an event about three weeks ago now in which all the coyote scat was like
this and that told me they were eating specific fruit.
I'm not sure exactly what it was, but it might have been crab apples.
Something in the garden, no, not crab apples, well, possibly.
In any case, the thing before us can be understood, very usefully understood as the in-seat tube,
in this moment, presence of vast arrays and layers of relationships.
Again, if we want to ask what's going on, fundamentally, relationships aren't only what's going on,
they're what we tell what's going on with.
They're both.
It's a pretty good candidate.
There might be a better one, by all means, suggest one.
But this one, very important and leads to insights that are otherwise unavailable.
Because if you've got the right root idea, then the branches of the tree are not the
right root idea.
If you have a very good root idea, a very useful one that returns liberties to you that
are otherwise lost, then all the other branches of the tree inherit this quality.
But if you start out with a root idea of what, say, a thing is, or what the being is, that
is either mostly broken or very constricting, very narrow, then the same thing happens.
All of the branches beyond it are fucked, right?
They inherit that problem.
So in a way, the garden is like the presentation body, the local presentation body of the history
of life on earth.
I don't know, this Jay has decided that peanuts are good.
That's not terribly surprising.
But I think he also realizing that peanuts are good, right?
He doesn't stop there.
He becomes interested in the source of peanuts.
And I become interested in him or her, though this guy really looks like a male.
And he's kind of showing, like he's making quite a display, right?
He's flying right toward my eyes and then veering at the last moment.
I wonder if you've sold enough to take one from my hand.
I'm going to take a little bit of a break, but I'm going to take a little bit of a break.
I'm going to take a little bit of a break, but I'm going to take a little bit of a break.
He becomes interested in me in the sense of learning about me, because if I am the source
of peanuts, which is of course, isn't my only role, he needs to be able to recognize
me and to understand what led us here.
How did we come together, right?
To understand histories, to conceive of futures, yes, corvids conceive of futures.
They can imagine things, not in precisely the same way we do, but it's very clear they
can imagine things.
And one of the things they can imagine is futures and one of the places where their
imagination is very active is relationships, because as I said, it's both what's going
on and what we use to tell what's going on.
So you want to be on the right channel, we're a very good one, relationships is the right
one, it's deep, it's rich, it's alike with reality.
Everything in physics is relationships.
I'm not dismissing physics trivially with that, I'm saying what we know in physics is
probably less than, how much do we know about what's actually going on, nearly nothing.
Whenever we acquire knowledge, it immediately seems sort of conclusive and it gets projected
universally, we project it universally actually.
But all of the sums, the sum of the knowledge that humans have ever had, if we encoded it
all, well, now let's see that won't work, because there's different kinds of knowledge.
But the sum of the formally encoded knowledge is trivial compared to what's going on, very
trivial.
And that means that most of identity or meaning or relation is mysterious, it's unknown,
it's not ordinary to our language and thinking and conceptual models.
And that's very promising, because so far our language and thinking and conceptual models
are often peculiarly ironically confused.
And this is in part because purpose drives our relations with language and concept in
category.
And where that purpose is too narrow or confused or disoriented in relation, for example.
There you go, you get problems in losses of features of identity, memory, meaning.
This guy might, maybe, take a peanut from my hand.
There's a pair, male and female.
Male is vastly more intrepid than the female.
And you can ask me, well, have you sexed them?
And you can introduce gender concern and language concern, and this is a topic I'm going to
take apart in another video, but I know which one's the male.
And I spent a couple of years learning to determine, which I have not completed this
quest yet, but learning to be able to sex geese by visual cues other than mere behavior.
Like being able to physically tell the difference between a male, a snow goose, and a female
snow goose.
And it's not the kind of question you can brute force your way through.
You actually have to go on a quest, you ask the geese if they will help you, you talk
with them in your heart, right?
It's not a clinical, for me, it can't be merely a clinical pursuit, no.
And what helped me was meeting an old goose couple, which is a very rare thing in nature,
they don't live that long.
They generally can't survive, but here, at one place, it was safe enough over time for
this old couple to survive.
There weren't enough threats or predators, and there was enough food.
And I got to meet them.
And at first I was very confused, and I just thought, oh, these poor geese, they're sick.
It took me a while to recognize that they're not sick, they're old.
And it came, and it was as if it was transmitted into me one day.
We're not sick, we're old.
I'm not claiming the geese were in telepathic cahoots with me, I'm claiming something even
stranger than that because telepathy isn't interesting enough to describe the way that
mines network in nature, the way that relationships form these multilayered, you know, dimensional
hyper structures of communion.
And I want a piece of that action.
That's why I'm here.
That's the richest source of intelligence, learning and understanding.
What is it that humans learned that they didn't learn from nature?
So go, you know, if you want water, you go to the river, go to the lake, depending on
why you want water, the ocean.
Go to the sky.
Variety gives depth, right?
The variety, here's the girl.
Be sure this is the girl.
She's not quite as bold.
Yeah, her spirit is different.
She's softer, gentler, a little more timid.
Being in her own unique ways, but she's not like the boy.
The boy's like ready to jump.
Hello.
Oh, beautiful.
It's a good scratch.
That's the first time the girl took one, I'm pretty sure that's the girl, isn't it?
I got it backwards.
Maybe I got it backwards.
I got it backwards.
I did have them confused for a moment there.
I got it backwards.
I can't just walk away from my friends, even though I'm making a video.
But I think I'm going to have an escort for a bit.
So maybe I can walk.
Maybe we can walk.
I can walk and they fly.
I sometimes say my footsteps draw the path on earth, but my soul flies tree to tree.
I had so many things I wanted to talk about, but the garden is by far.
It sort of drew me toward the topic of the garden and the living places, particularly
the living places in the cities and our backyards and in our hearts.
That's why this is like inner space, because this is much more authentically like what is
inside me.
The garden where all the places of the world are brought together and all the histories
and lineages and ancestors of the world are brought together, even if only in ambassadors.
One can enter that body with reverence and attend not exactly the language, but the signs
of the living place, because they are signs of our own interiority.
They are catalysts for remembering of the before.
A boy just sweeps right by my hand.
That was a good one.
I could feel his wings right next to my fingertips.
They don't usually see me talking.
I'm not usually making videos when they're here.
He's probably trying to figure out why am I making face noises, because he knows that
I'm quiet.
It is the boy that's following me.
I wonder if the boy is canny enough to have emulated the girl to fool me into giving him
another peanut.
I think he might be.
He knows that I pay particular attention to her, because he's more intrepid, so if I
don't carefully separate the food caches, he'll just dominate and get all of them.
He doesn't really do that.
He's not mean that way, but he'll get more, a lot more.
Infinitely rich, infinitely deep, infinitely familiar, but yet in a way alien to our common
way of being in our minds and thought is every living being in this living place.
These beings are vastly more profound than anything in our language helps us to see.
They are like peoples, and we are made to be able to communicate with them, but it's
also possible for us to get a kind of a plasticky religion about that and do something else.
It's a bad smell here.
It's a chemical smell.
Like oil or something.
Oh my God.
What has happened here?
This I'm going to have to investigate.
I've been very concerned about a coyote, and the scat tells me things about the coyotes.
But this, taking a risk here.
I'm going to have to be very respectful because that den was not there yesterday.
And that mound of relatively unstable earth.
