I'm out for a late night walk, the air is calm, the trees are old, the stars are drinking
up the tears of all the lonely people. I'm surrounded by tract homes in a subdivision,
and they're pretty luxurious here. One might call them mini mansions. Because the neighborhood
is old, there are many beautiful trees. Clearly, there's not a lot of concern here about trees
falling, because I see nearly no trees that have been cut down, unlike where I live. My topic
tonight is delicacy. I suppose because I'm feeling delicate. And as I was walking, I was thinking,
well, perhaps I'll listen to the brilliant Vedantic teacher, Sarva Priyananda. But I'm
feeling too delicate for that. The sound in my own voice is softer. It's quiet here. There's no one
on the street, lots of expensive cars up above them, ancient stars. And since I was feeling
delicate, and I recognized that, I thought I might speak a bit about the most delicate aspects inside
us. The aspects that for many of us learn to hide from the noise, and struggle, and confusion,
of the waking world in the societies we live in, which are very strange societies, and not
particularly human, though humans fill all the positions in the masquerade. Most of what is
delicate within us has learned to become timid, not to show up for conflict, or analysis, or
judgment, or accounting, or arguments. It's as if we're filled with animals that used to live on the
surface of the earth. But over time, they learned to burrow, to protect themselves from the noise, and
the incredible shininess, the metal, the advertisements, the televisions, the computers,
the smart phones, the iPads, all these things. Recently, I picked up one of my father's guitars,
and instead of playing something that I knew, I immediately began composing something. And for me,
that process is both ecstatic and fraught with peril. Sometimes it just doesn't work, I can't get
anywhere. But this time, it was like my fingers had already mapped out this song,
somewhere deep inside me in my heart. And it just came out, and it's a simple naive thing, the song.
But it's beautiful, and it captures the emotion I was feeling, but couldn't speak of,
couldn't bring forth. For whom, to whom indeed would I bring it forth? Such things. Who are these
things for in our lives? What are the people in our lives that the deepest urgent silences
of us ache to speak to and be hurt by? So you see, we are very delicate.
And most of what is good and true and brilliant and prodigious and ecstatic and free and intelligent
in us, it has to hide. It doesn't feel safe. Now, in some of us, various features of these
things I just cataloged, have learned to be bold and they've survived.
They've survived the great undergrounding of what we refer to as growing up
in, I think, an incredibly and tragically confused library of ways.
And that process is filled with both mysteries and keys.
I think most of us take it for granted that everybody grows out of childhood.
You just grow out of it. Apparently the size of your body determines
what the expected level of quote maturation, unquote, is.
And there is a natural process inside us of astonishing depth and profundity that we don't
talk about at all. The idea that we have life phases or instars.
And trust me when I say we have more than this, but we should at least be able to think this way.
And those life phases are actually, they might as well be distinct beings. If we want to be
tediously numeric about it, there isn't anything but a new being every instant.
It's just conditioned by habits and histories. And so most of the delicate, beautiful, powerful
aspects of ourselves, truly powerful, not superficially powerful or hiding.
But in some of us, they've pieces of them and constellations within them and groups of those
preserved, excellences survive. And some of us find some way
in various parts of our lives, we may find different ways, but
it's clear that some people are so madly in love with being alive that even though they feel the
same burden of more and more kinds of not so much, the people in their houses with their televisions.
Everyone around here has, well, not everyone. Half, three quarters of the people here have
giant trucks. These are 40, 60, $80,000 trucks. They don't have anything resembling life.
The streets are dead, more dead than a graveyard. In a graveyard, you have
some, a very astonishing array of doorways. Of course, if you're wise, every place is a graveyard.
But few of us are wise. Perhaps in this unusual talk,
some of the parts of me that I keep hidden that have been buried under stress and pain and loss
and fear, anxiety, restlessness, concern that have been buried by the noise of the waking world,
the bad lighting, the terrifying colors,
green and brown and blue,
that are organisms. It's funny, we think, we're trained to think anyway, I don't think so,
that the green of this hedge and the green of car X are the same thing. Nothing like the same thing.
Whatever color living beings are, whatever frequencies of light they thus reflect,
that's not ordinary color. The color of a flower is not the same thing,
as if you match the color perfectly on a digital display.
Delicacy.
I've composed many pieces for the guitar. A lot of them are pretty folksy,
only a few songs with lyrics. But almost all of them are lost to me. I haven't touched the
guitar in more than 10 years, except very briefly here and there.
So the other night I sat down to try to recover a few of the songs that came into my head
and started playing in my mind after I wrote, composed, I'm still composing it actually,
that piece that came out of me when I picked up my father's guitar.
And I was sitting in the garage because it's late on a stool and trying to recover this beautiful song,
but I can't believe I wrote. I can't write that now. I certainly can't write like that now.
And as a writer, when I look back over my poems, the incredible,
I don't even know what word to use, the incredible audacity of things I wrote 30, 20 years ago,
the forms of brilliance I could not now approach. I look at these things and think,
how did I write this?
But the matter is more complex. When I began to recover this song, I started crying.
And I had to fight to keep from just becoming, you know,
breaking down entirely, just sobbing wildly and keening,
which is a beautiful part of my crying experiences. So keening, just the same as crying.
And I was crying because the delicate, beautiful parts of me have been so oppressed for so long
that it's like they're starving. They're still alive down there, somewhere deep inside me.
And I'm relatively bold. I've been lucky enough to preserve some
of the intelligences of childhood. And I know we don't grow out of them. That's not what happens.
And there are those in whom they cannot be inhibited. And the common people worship them.
Of course, most of them become co-opted by whatever, you know, the structure of the society we live in.
But they put on mad show.
And the crowds cheer wildly. Why are the crowds cheering? Because those people are embodying
the delicate brilliance of our humanity in a publicly approved fashion.
All right, quarterbacking, music star, actor-actress,
ballerina, cello player, therapist,
body worker, writer, singer, dancer, actor.
It's almost as if our societies are so stultified that in order to actually touch our humanity
in its depths and our delicacy, we need a vector that is rewarded somehow
by the culture at large. We need a culturally acceptable vector.
Now, not everyone needs that the same way. And each creative person finds
some openings in the vast mechanical electronic trap and exploits them.
Yes, they exploit them. And they don't necessarily do it in a cunning way, though some of them
can, some of them are capable of that. Mostly, they're like a dandelion growing right up out
of the middle of the sidewalk, not in the crack. They burst through and flower.
And, you know, dam the torpedoes. They just do the thing they're aching inside to do their delicacy,
has overwhelmed them, you know, in the perspective that I'm presenting here.
And it doesn't care about fighting or anything, but it's not going to be silenced either.
And its non-silence shakes the world. When the delicate features within us speak,
the entire continuum of our species trembles in awe from the beginning to the end.
Because when the delicate aspects of us gain a voice, writing the song, dancing,
perhaps even in meditation, in love, in play, in reverence, in wonder, in awe, in eros,
then there is the semblance of being alive, something that truly
captures and enacts some of the infinite potential of our natural humanity,
our nature, our origin, our unimaginable depth,
thousand jungles, and every tree a possibility.
This is how we are inside. It's not one thing in there. It's not ten things.
The urgencies that accompany us into our human birth, that we bring to our human incarnation
as something we might call character.
The loves, the things that fascinate us and rapture us draw forth the water of wonder from our hearts,
these things. Helpless we are in the face of such thing, but if only we were helpless enough
that we couldn't be inhibited as most of us tragically have.
I was crying.
My son was there.
I was crying in so many different ways.
I was crying not just for the loss of the songs,
but also the felt sense that there was someone listening.
I long ago discovered, and some may say, no, you merely imagined that. Let them say so.
I long ago discovered that when making something of great beauty,
someone transcendental comes and sometimes more than none, and watches, and participates, and cheers,
and adores, and nurtures the enthusiasm with which that which is created is created.
As if, if only I could play beautifully enough, the muses themselves would come to listen.
And sometimes I did,
and I say to you that sometimes they did.
But this can happen in any aspect of our lives. In fact, it may be happening to me right now.
Because in speaking of these delicacies, we give them voice,
and when we give them a voice, they speak.
And this is the great and terrible secret of our adult humanity,
always present waiting for a moment in which it's safe.
And sometimes that moment is when we're entirely alone, and we may feel a loneliness so
perilous that we think it might destroy us.
The Navajo, apparently, I do not know firsthand,
are said in the blessing way, look,
to have chance and prayers, and an idea, or actually it's not an idea.
What is it? For the moment, I will clumsily call it a tradition of
seeking to do something, to become something that they call walking in beauty. Now, of course,
this is the English translation of whatever the vastly more poetic and sophisticated Navajo
language is or was, but I've heard and seen this written by a trustworthy source,
I think, if the people he spoke with were true, and I suspect they were.
They have this idea of walking in beauty.
The reason I introduce this is
we can make this opportunity and embody it, if we so choose.
Even if we feel entirely alone, and I promise you that if you begin to walk in beauty,
you will not be alone anymore. There might not be a man or woman next to you.
There might not be the forest, there might not be the ocean, the sky,
but they will come and walk in beauty with you and as you, and then you cannot be lonely.
Then you will remember things that whole epochs of humanity have completely forgotten.
The beautiful things about us, the beautiful things inside us,
the delicate things that keep their silence and prefer to infer,
prefer to suggest rather than declare, prefer to invite rather than control
all of these things, delicacy, great and terrible seeming delicacy inside us.
Most of our intelligence is there. A tiny little portion, one spark of the sun
becomes our waking mind and in this most of us are trapped, myself included.
It's only humorous if one can see the irony.
We are thirsty water. This is our problem. We are thirsty water.
We cannot see the water we are carrying, the water we are, and we even cannot see the water around us.
So as water, we are thirsty. It seems very dry as my watery self today.
There's a good cartoon here, maybe a comedy skit.
A sort of Alan Watts comedy skit, I suppose.
Most of my finest,
my brightest, my most powerful, my most intelligent,
my most divine aspects, they can be intimidated.
They can become intimidated with some great word for this.
The dead charade that is
our culture, our nations, what we call traditions but our really habits in our case.
All the accoutrements of the very object,
accounting-based culture in which we live.
I just walked past a truck that's probably, you know, $60,000.
It shines with terrible solidity. There's nothing as solid as that.
The trees and stuff, they're not as solid as that thing. Notice how compressed it is, how solid it is?
Our delicacy recoils from such things. Mine does in any case. I won't speak for you.
And yet they're, you know, very compelling. They're inside one and drive it. Wow.
It's really, well, it's a whole different way of being a human to drive a car.
The sky here is big, really big compared to where I live. It's generously beautiful.
It is my hope. You know, I'm not just speaking nostalgically for the
beautiful experiences of the sudden intrusion of catastrophic wonder or creativity or awe
throughout my life. And those things I count to be my true life, the other stuff just seems like
bank in time, doing time. It's really like we're in a prison. We do time between
the events and situations that call us into being deeper and deeper into our true selves.
We're doing time and the television is a distraction, the video games and the drug addictions and the
food and the paranoid thoughts and the anxiety, sleeplessness and all these things.
They are responses to being imprisoned and isolated. Well, all around us there's every
appearance of infinite connectivity of the internet. No one had the internet.
Well, that's not true. Before there was television, people dreamed together and before there was
radio, humans were telepathic. It's in our nature. It's not a joke or theory. It's a demonstrable fact
that science hasn't found it. It has nothing to do with the issue. 99% of the universe science
hasn't found. Does that mean it doesn't exist? No, it means that within the scope of science
these things are relatively understood at the level at which our understanding can presently
function. There's the scope of science and there's the scope of everything. And the fact that science
hasn't proven something does not mean it doesn't exist. Science hasn't proven the minds with which
we compose science. They don't know what that is. So hopefully you see the irony there in any case.
Scope.
Before there was an internet, there was
the hyperconnective cognitions of all of life on earth, including the sun, time space, the distance
stars, all of this one nursery from which organisms and minds emerge. It's still there.
It's just that the internet is really distracting, so we can't remember how to access it.
As if the situation were not ironic enough, the thing that we notice we can't remember
