how to access it with, that thing is the access portal. That's the IP address of everything.
A dear friend of mine was in a little village in South America in the jungle.
A mostly indigenous village and the elder there,
the guy who was their doctor in the village, so to speak.
He said to my friend, back where you live, you have this internet thing.
We have something older and better. You call it the jungle, but you don't know what it is.
That gentleman was correct. That guy knew what time it is. He said the insects and the birds
and the water and the sky, they are more than your internet. We send messages all the time.
We receive messages all the time. It's always been this way with us. Well, it's always been this way
with us. Simply raised in a culture that's
inveterately ignorant in all kinds of highly structured and seemingly attractive ways.
These expensive houses that I'm walking through with the people inside them all asleep and their
expensive cars in front of them. It's very showy. That's why people have $40,000 trucks
or $50,000 trucks or $80,000 trucks. They're making the surface that recalls features of the
hidden delicacies, but represents them and turns them into display phenomenon.
Display behavior among humans. This display behavior terrifies the delicacies inside us
if they are frightened. If they are not, they will use this the same way like a CIA operative uses
the situation in a poorly secured bank in some third world country to instigate an event that
allows her to succeed in an operation where ordinarily it would seem to be impossible to succeed.
But she does it artfully and her life's at risk. Not a problem. Life's always at risk. Now what?
There's a certain kind of boldness in some aspects of our delicacy where that we could
remember, that we could embody and enact, that bring the powers to hand.
And they are things extolled in literature. Great love, adoration, daring for the sake of pure
daring, but not without intelligence. I recall that this is an interesting analogy.
So there was a video of a guy who was in a mall and up on the second story of the mall
there was an escalator rail and like a two-year-old child got a hold of that rail
and she followed it up and dragged her up and over into the free space between the floors
suddenly. I think she could do, she just kept grabbing it till it dropped her into space.
And some guy, an ordinary looking fellow,
saw the whole thing take place and he rescued the child he caught her, she fell.
And later when asked about it, everyone was, you know, saying that he's a hero and this kind of
thing. He said, no, no, I don't, I don't feel any of that. I just did what I, what anyone would do.
I was the one who was there.
Now this kind of thing is just directly responding
with the delicacy due to the situation, which is very delicate, even though it seems quite fraught
and whatever. But in, when we decide to do something,
now this is why there are daredevil's and things, they've discovered this.
When we decide to do something truly from the heart, the whole world around us changes.
The nature of who we are transforms. The things we do from our deepest heartfelt delicacy.
And sometimes it's not a gigantic thing. It's
the authentic smile with which I meet someone walking around these streets in the daytime.
Yes, yes, there's something there. It's not as beautiful as a song, perhaps,
or something that persists. Nonetheless, there it is, the delicacy.
These poor people, they're so starved for anything resembling beauty.
All of us, we poor people,
that we are inclined to forget that we can become it.
We can walk in beauty. We can walk as beauty in the world.
Most of the time, I myself forget this, but right now, I'm remembering.
I'm remembering this. We can walk in beauty.
And part of that is discovering and inventing what that means.
Creatively becoming superficially quiet enough that our delicacy can emerge.
And drink the water, the shining water.
For our actual nature and character, each one of us uniquely.
So many aspects we share, so many aspects can only be found in you. Only you, right now.
Only me.
It's not so much that I'd like us to celebrate our delicacy. I'd like us to
create situations in which we can experience and embody it together to bring it to life.
A celebration is a representative kind of thing.
We're doing a second-order thing about something that's a first-order activity.
It's a bit ironic. We're going to make a representation and play that out instead of,
and this is typical. In a way, there's something beautiful here. It's in direction.
Instead of explicitly just doing it and being it, we make up a game like Christmas or Easter
or the Super Bowl, whatever game we make up. Us crazy broken monkeys.
So for now, let us resurrect our delicacies together.
And perhaps we can learn what it means to walk in beauty together.
Thank you for joining me.
