Because I just thought it was great to see them out having this adventure together, where
they're gonna, you know, I couldn't tell actually in the beginning who was going up
the tree, the kids or the dad, or the dad went up.
And it was just kind of mind boggling, like the guy wasn't really properly equipped to
be climbing the tree, even though he had, you know, ropes and belts and stuff like
this.
He didn't have a helmet.
And if he had taken, it was a pretty sketchy route, he plotted up that tree.
And if he had taken a fall, there's a couple of places where the protection he had set
up would not have functioned well by any, you know, way that I could see.
So I was very concerned.
And there was a lot at stake, right, to this, you know, the daughters, and I had to consider
whether my role as an observer, whether it would be better if I just didn't, you know,
hang out.
So they wouldn't have the additional stress of being observed.
But I talked to them and asked if I could watch and stuff, and he went up the tree and
he got that strap down.
But there were a couple points there where it was really touchy, and, you know, I'm watching
the children and their father in the tree, and it's a pretty serious thing going on there.
And the dad's trying to kind of keep it playful, but frankly, there was sort of a, I was getting
a kind of a mixed message, right?
Like one of the messages was, you can be intrepid and do amazing things, things you'd never
expect that you're capable of doing.
Cool message.
But the other message was weirder, and it seemed a bit too extreme.
The thing about retrieving the strap from the tree, and I don't know what the justification
is, could just be we don't leave things in trees, right?
Okay.
Good point.
There's a bunch of string up there, bird could get tangled in it.
The intensity of the father's drive was at once admirable, and seemed maybe half crazy
too, right?
Like this is a mixed message to give your daughters that it's okay to risk your life
for a little band of climbing material and some string up in a tree.
Now of course, that's just how I was in the situation.
I was kind of like, I don't know what's exact, how are the daughters, what would the children,
what message will they take from this?
But I'm thinking like me and an adult, and they're in their child mind, so the chance
of me getting a good read on what they're thinking or what they'll make of it, it's
not great, but I couldn't help thinking a little bit like a family therapist, right?
Like what's the dad, what's he modeling to his daughters?
And there were some good things in there, but there were also some kind of like crazy
overdrive.
So I was nervous, but it was a beautiful thing to observe a family sort of participating
in this big adventure about a climbing strap way up in the tree.
And so my awareness was awareness of that, right?
My palms were sweaty, that was, I was engaged when he was up in the tree.
Now the evening has come.
So many other things I've been thinking of sharing about, particularly sort of osmosis
of how we absorb essences from each other in groups, even over short periods of time.
But I think it's going to have to wait.
For now, I'll sign off, bye-bye everybody.
