Hello everybody.
I'm out today on a walk
to see the ocean.
And I think that perhaps I can hear
the roar of the waves far away.
There may be a little wind
and some mic noise as there often
is here in San Francisco,
but I like to make recordings when I'm out walking.
So hopefully it won't be too bad.
Right now in the distance
there is something that happens all the time
which is
a five to six block long
convoy of motorcycles.
It's an extremely noisome
thing.
It's particularly troubling that they've decided
to go take their route through
Golden Gate Park.
But
well, you know,
we all experience things.
And
some of the things we experience, we find them disturbing
and undesirable.
And some of the things we experience we are neutral toward
and some things we find enjoyable.
And so we have an affinity
for those things that we find enjoyable.
And we have a disaffinity for those things that we would prefer not to
relate with.
And then we are sort of non-plussed
by other things.
Now of course
what we experience
depends on
our way of being in our bodies and our minds.
And so
if I am very
focused on the beauty of the sky and the trees
and the sounds of the birds,
I may not even pay much attention to the fact of the motorcycle convoy.
But if I am very concerned
about someone or something
ranging, penetrating,
unfairly subjecting me to something I do not want,
then not only will I certainly notice the motorcycles
but I will become upset
and I will feel that a violation
is occurring. They are forcing me to hear
these terrible sounds.
And frankly
in general, I think loud motorcycles
are a terrible thing
because they subject people to a bad sound
very loudly, sometimes a sound that can be heard for miles.
And what's going on there?
I could feel entitled
to not be subjected to this, to be protected from this.
And in fact I do feel
a sense of that entitlement. This is unjust.
And it's some kind of ego game
that usually some male
has an incredibly loud
machine that is incredibly loud on purpose
and penetrates everything. The dogs, the cats,
the houses, the people, the car alarms go off when it goes by.
There's no way to justify this. This is simply wrong
in my view.
And so I am sensitive to it. I do not want it.
And more I want it to be
prohibited. I want it to be prohibited.
This is wrong. No one should be able to subject everyone
to their egoic
insecure masculine
machine.
And in fact I have a similar
issue with many bizarre displays of
childish masculinity
and perhaps even some bizarre
displays of childish femininity. If I think of these
things in this way, I don't have to. I can choose
how to think about them. I can remove the gendering
and just say, ah this person, what are they doing?
What's up with this? Why are they subjecting everyone around them
to something that is troubling
or in some way triggering or so on.
So just like
all of us, I have affinities and disaffinities, likes
and dislikes, desires and aversions.
And then I also have neutrality.
Or all of these things are continua, right? They are
matters of degree.
There are some foods I like somewhat.
There are some foods I generally like. Some foods I like a lot.
Some foods I adore. Some foods I make me ecstatic.
I'm like, oh this is the best food I've ever had.
And similarly at the negative end of the spectrum it's a continuum.
There are many gatherings in the park
and the motorcycle gathering is one of them, but
I think it's fairly clear that that kind of thing does not belong in the park, which is a sanctuary for people.
To relax and to experience nature
and to have food together and gather
and play, play music
there's a big gathering off to my left where people are playing music
and having a picnic
and maybe playing volleyball.
The music is so loud
that it must be very difficult for the people who are near the source of it
to have a conversation at all.
Why is the music so loud?
What is being served by that?
You know,
there are features of our environment that are natural
that are very difficult. When the sun is extremely hot
it's hard to be comfortable.
When the sun is hidden
and it is very very cold
it's hard to be comfortable.
There's some aspect of
my own consciousness that
jealously guards my comfort.
You are intruding on my comfort. I am triggered.
Now what do I have to do?
Now I have to do something
because I am triggered. I have to come have a talk with you
or we have to have some conflict or there has to be a report
or something like this.
It's funny
this was not my intended topic
and I may move toward my intended topic.
But I wanted to take a moment
and explore this because
it's quite a fascinating thing.
I am identified with my comfort and desires.
What I mean by that is that I easily confuse them
with myself. I perceive my comfort as myself.
And so if my comfort is impinged on
or violated it feels like a violation of
me, my body
if indeed my body is
me.
And I would argue that or propose rather
that there's a way in which that's true my body is me and there's many ways
in which that's not
extensive enough to be me.
In some way I am all beings
and so if someone
else is violated I may feel violated.
I may identify with their suffering or their joy
and this is natural to us.
But under certain conditions we become
a kind of very small self
particularly if we are under a lot of stress or isolated or alone
we are sick or injured or vulnerable we are being dominated
we are imprisoned we are in poverty we are homeless
we are suffering
a long array of grave injustices that have
deeply inhibited our capacity for joy and development and relation
then
we may become very sensitive
perhaps hypersensitive
so that something that we would ordinarily pass over without the slightest moment
of regard becomes a mountain
in our felt sense
of self.
And this is natural for all human beings
we appreciate
praise and opportunity and comfort and wealth
and we are angered by violations
things we can take as violations. Now of course all of this involves
what we make of our experience
and what we will make is fundamentally
up. It's
prefab by how we are in the moment
in our body and the situation.
If we are generally happy and joyful
and having fun and playing and growing and learning and creating
of course we are much less likely to take offense
and offense is a very heavy
thing to take and carry. I know for I often have done it
and sometimes do it. And if things are rough and we are
troubled and alone we might become frightened. We might take fear.
What can I say about these things that is actually useful?
Well, I can speak of practice
the practice of awareness
allows us to make a bigger bubble
than the thing that is offending or oppressing us.
Or less likely but also profound
the thing we are enjoying in a door
love. That which we feel is nourishing us.
So when these things arise
we can practice making a bigger bubble.
We leave the stimuli or the situation
in a little bubble and then we make a much bigger bubble
of self around that. And that bubble includes all kinds
of little bubbles of history and memory and dreaming and play
and loss and suffering and fear and pain
but we can make a bigger bubble.
