Hi. Today is Monday, November 18th, 2013. It's 108 a.m.
I'd like to discuss with you some very dangerous ideas.
Dangerous in the way that they're likely to radically change how you think about and use your mind, particularly your intelligence.
Which, quite frankly, although everybody's pretty certain we know all about this, let me show you that we're wrong.
In fact, the real undiscovered country is human relation.
And if you look around the world today, you can see this so obviously in every single corner of the world.
We have incredible technological ability and it's destroying everything we love and need to learn and become and be.
Meanwhile, we get glorious representations and electronic museums.
In fact, I'm afraid we are becoming glorious representations and electronic museums.
And the problem with that is that memory and intelligence are alive.
They're nothing like machines, regardless of what modern people think.
If you go directly and touch nature, you will find something there so shocking and deep that you will realize suddenly why 100 million books were written instead of one about it.
And why those 100 million books are not even foam on the surface of what they're talking about.
Most people think they know something about what nature is because science tells us what it is.
Religion kind of has a different story, not a very interesting one, by the way.
But science tells us a lot.
Unfortunately, what science tells us is bereft of most of what nature is.
It's just easy to prove they missed 90% of the cells in your body.
They just overlooked 90% of them, your bacterial cells.
They didn't count them in your DNA.
They attacked them when you were sick instead of realizing they might heal you.
They also recently announced that they weren't sure what 99% of the matter in the universe was.
Sorry, we don't know what 99% of that out there is.
Yet this is our most trusted authority, not only for knowledge.
There's a little bit of reason to trust science about many aspects of knowledge, not all of them.
But we still trust science about identity.
What something is, and that's a grave mistake.
For what something is, is never objectively discernible.
For human beings especially, we bring the what.
And the way that we bring the what, and the methods, the perspectives, the goals, these are all crucially important.
So I want to talk a little bit about some rather shocking ideas that don't belong in any specific branch of human knowledge.
They're very general.
And one of them has to do with the meaning of space.
What is space? What is the between of things?
What is that stuff that separates everything?
What is the barrier between you and I that somehow we can never cross?
Why do we want to explore the space beyond Earth?
How much do we really know about the space around us?
What is the nature of space itself?
How does it truly relate with time, which we understand from Einstein and relativity to be essentially inseparable?
But do we think that way?
And if we do, how deeply have we thought that way?
Have we even caught up with what we learned in the early part of the 1900s?
I don't think we have, in fact, our language kind of prohibits us from doing so.
So I'd like to talk a little bit about space and its peculiarities.
The things that we don't notice that will profoundly affect our intelligence if we do notice them.
Because they have to do with how we became intelligent, why and how we might remain intelligent or not.
And our relationship to ideas, language, knowledge, science, religion, nature, each other, everything, everything.
And that's why it doesn't really fit in any topic.
It's such a general topic.
It's space.
I mean, come on, everything that you see is an instance of it in some uniquely bounded fashion.
Isn't that an astonishing thing?
Because if, I mean, language is really a form of spatial use, it involves time.
If there's no time, you can't have language because it all collapses.
Poop, it's just a speck now.
And if you have no space, the letters on a page just become a black speck.
Again, if you have no time, you get a speck.
If you have no space, you get a speck.
Isn't that interesting?
That openness, that space, there's an intelligence there.
And I don't mean something scientific or mathematical.
I mean a potential that is moving it alive and vital and mysterious and unknowable.
In fact, it is unknowable.
And yet, to throw it away entirely is a grave mistake.
For this intelligence, its fingerprint is written in every object, every living being,
every eye, the music of my voice, the wonder in our hearts, and the power of our minds.
It's written in the tragedy and striving of all of human history.
It's written in every leaf in the child's laughter.
It's written in the passion that drives our most secret urges and compulsions and dreams.
It's everywhere.
This fingerprint.
We don't need to say, actually, whether this is the fingerprint of that legendary,
supernal being, the Holy One, who is all beings and all things.
We don't have to say whether this is a religious discussion or a scientific discussion
or a folk discussion or a philosophical discussion.
We can just have a discussion.
We don't have to decide, because the fingerprint is everywhere, no matter how we decide to classify it.
It's in every form. It's in your own fingerprints.
This is actually why I chose that metaphor.
So space is a kind of intelligence, and it's what we throw away.
The alchemists who were men and women seekers concerned with transforming human knowledge and understanding.
They were concerned with an impossible degree and kind of non-human insight.
Many of them realized early on, and they tried to encode this in ways that wouldn't make it too obvious,
for they didn't want everyone to know.
They wanted only people intelligent enough to use this intelligently to know about this,
for they believed that if you simply heard this, it would be enough to help you take advantage of it.
That could be dangerous for people who are greedy or sociopathic.
But what they would say is that the most valuable thing is what we throw away, what everyone discards.
And of course, people think things like garbage and sewage and things we don't want.
I'm not sure what exactly they refer to, and they may, if they were wise,
they would be referring to something that changed according to context.
But I can imagine something they might have referred to, and it satisfies both requirements,
that everyone threw it away, and that it changes dramatically in its meaning and power according to context.
And that is space.
Think about the space that separates the letters on a page.
And think about how that space has a single unified shape.
And that for each unique page, that shape is different, but it's a single shape.
It's one thing.
It's not each of the letters in their sequence.
It's as if the letters remove something from a single shape and leave a single object with all of the information intact,
as if you could throw away the letters, but we throw away the space.
Isn't that interesting?
And we can count the letters and read each one, as though it's the words and the sentences, the phrases, the ideas,
separately, you know, gathered together in their separation on the page that are important, and yet,
do you think we could read the space?
And if we did, how different might our experience be?
How much faster might we read?
There are people who practice skills that allow them to read a page in an eye-blink.
It's true.
And they've trained their minds to do this, and I think I know what they're doing.
They're leveraging the fundamental intelligence of space.
And they're also leveraging a different kind of intelligence in us, one that is formed of many myriads of tiny components,
and is more like a cloud than an individual, a cloud that can change shape into any form that's useful,
or multiple forms that are useful, or multiple sets of multiple forms, instantaneously.
And we do have this kind of intelligence inside us, but it's very quiet, and it doesn't grandstand,
and it usually won't show up for conscious inspection or evaluation.
It doesn't like to be tested.
It doesn't care to be challenged.
It already knows its own skill, which is billions of years old.
Evolution was its challenge.
It passed.
If you think you can compose when it can't pass, well, that's about the same as your shoe thinking it should be worn on top of your head,
because really the part of you that thinks that way is an appendage of this other part,
and yet the part of you that thinks that way doesn't believe in the existence of the other part,
and is threatened by its silent master.
This is part of the nature of human intelligence.
Again, having to do with space, because the real intelligence inside us,
the intelligence that's so astonishing that it could solve any set of problems you could put before it in seconds,
and you're carrying this kind of intelligence.
Trust me.
In fact, don't trust me.
Go look and find it much better, and let's find it together right now if possible.
But anyway, you're carrying this anciently evolved intelligence that we don't have access to,
because we depend, as I said, sort of on the shoe, and we expect the shoe to steer the ship.
It doesn't work.
As you know, as a person capable of walking or even moving, you have to steer where you go.
You can't expect your prostheses to steer for you,
although in our time, we've become quite confused about this,
and this affects our relationship with space, time, memory, and intelligence,
all of which are intimately linked.
In fact, I'm going to suggest that space, time, memory, and intelligence are one thing,
and that we've been looking in some of the wrong places for our scientific advancements.
I won't say for the unified theory, that would be a bit strident,
but we could probably go a long way if we began to understand that part of science must include nature,
which means it must include us and living beings.
It must include relational time, other modes of time that we don't consider scientifically,
and certainly don't consider linked to physics.
And yet, impossible that they're not.
They can't not be.
Living beings are a mode of time space.
We keep pretending they're separate somehow and they're watching time space or something.
No.
Sorry.
In fact, the really strange thing is that living beings in time space are inseparable,
which means time space has to be a living thing.
You follow me?
You can't produce separate living things on a page.
You can't have a page of, you know, there's no page that you type on and then living things come out,
but time space is that kind of thing and you don't have to type on it.
If you have time space, it just produces eventually living things.
And we know this is a fact.
We are these things.
It doesn't require science or religion to prove this really absolutely.
We are these living things.
You know, if you had a glass of water on your table, think about this or something really interesting about space
and water will show us what it is.
Suppose you had a glass of water on your table or you found one there.
Any table will do and any kind of glass of water as long as it's relatively transparent.
And you notice the water there and you decide not to do anything about it for reasons we don't need to explain here.
And as time passes, you think you see there's something forming on the bottom of the water.
Now, at first you think, I'm not sure what that is, but over time it looks to be maybe crystals.
So you take some of them out and taste them.
Turns out there's salt crystals and you realize that the water must have been salty unless someone put salt in it.
So it's one of the two.
The water was salty to begin with of its own accord.
Somehow it was salty at first or someone put salt in it.
The universe is kind of the same way.
If you get living beings, then the water must be living beings-y.
The water of time-space, it's not going to produce living beings if it's not living beings.
And even if it wasn't before, once it does, it is.
And then if it wasn't, then who put them?
Who put the salt in the water? Did someone put it there?
This is kind of the idea of God, but we don't need to go anywhere like that to understand these things.
We can stay right in terrain that's safe for everyone and children and anyone with any kind of belief.
And just look at what's going on and see much more clearly.
There's something about space that leads to intelligence, isn't there?
If you take it away from a page, you take all the space away, all those letters collapse to a little black speck.
And that can't have any intelligence, can you?
Because there's no way to read the letters.
So you could watch them collapse, in which case maybe you could if you read them really quick while they were collapsing before they turned into speck.
Or if they collapsed and then re-emerged, then you could read them in the in-between.
Which could be a little bit like what's going on if you think about, for example, how we wake up and go to sleep.
We're dealing with time and space and consciousness, so this is a way that we relate with space.
And we are born and die, and we begin and end, and we say hello and goodbye.
All these are, you know, they deal with time, but of course as we've been taught and yet did not fully understand,
time and space go together, you can't really separate them.
We are made of both, and all of our experience involves both.
The experiences we think of as spatial or temporal, the experiences we think of as temporal are spatial.
The beings and circumstances we think of as separate from that can't be.
