So what I'm trying to say is that space has a very peculiar quality of potential,
and it's the potential for intelligence, in a sense, for relation.
There are many other potentials in space, obviously, but the one that I'm focusing on here is one we don't really think about.
We think of space as empty. I think of the space that's available in my room as available.
It's open. There's nothing in there. I mean, I know there's atmosphere in there, and I'm occupying it.
Those are important facts, but the space is fundamentally open.
And the way in which it is open grants me what I'm going to call degrees of liberty, which are dimensions of possibility.
And not just one, but a few.
And the way that intelligence tends to happen is by linking these together in synergistic modules, if you will,
that it then links these in turn in a kind of linear accelerator fashion to get results from even very modest gains
that would otherwise appear monumental or impossible for their profound forward progress
and ability to sustain themselves and grow and develop and, in fact, invent new ways,
new dimensions into which they may grow and develop and discover themselves.
So it's a very astonishing game, all because there's some space here.
And when scientists say they don't know what 99% of the universe is, or maybe I got that statistic wrong,
but I'm close, when they say that or we hear something like that maybe from the media,
have they ever wondered about what I'm talking about, that space and time and intelligence are linked?
And that strange stuff they call dark matter could be really a mode of intelligence,
a mode of spacetime that is itself intelligent, which all the other modes of spacetime bear the fingerprint of,
which would mean we are, in fact, kind of the walking fingerprint of that and our fingers and everything,
our fingerprints and everything, our eyes, the beauty of our speech and dreams.
And in fact, that's true whether that's true of dark matter or not because the space all around us has produced us
as a living walking example of its character.
So what must its character be if it didn't just produce us, but all of the living beings of Earth,
all of them, oh my goodness gracious me, all of those creatures, all of the organisms,
all of their relationships, of which we know nearly nothing, nearly nothing.
We know about living beings in terms of functions and appearances.
We do not know their nature or their deep intelligence, which believe me,
if you get a taste of it, you're going to be a little bit upset at the people who are hiding it from you.
And you're going to know that it was both science and religion and folk culture and esoteric culture
and human culture in general because the beauty and power in nature are so overwhelming
that they threaten everything humans think, want to be, and everything we believe about our own superiority.
In fact, the slightest glance in the direction of nature shows that we'll never make a machine.
The sum of machines we will ever produce is not worth a single ant.
That's how profound nature actually is.
We have a very backwards idea about this and we're pursuing it wildly in truth
and we're approaching the point where we have to recognize these facts or perish.
So we're kind of having a wild last fling where we insist upon our intelligence and superiority
in the face of every kind of staggering evidence to the opposite,
especially in our relationships with each other, nature, and even technology and knowledge, language itself.
All of these are relationships of space and time, development and evolution.
And of course evolution is an expression of the character of living space-time over a span, over an expanse.
And there's an intelligence at play there which we've presumed is mechanical.
I would like to suggest that it's of a former class we don't yet possess a reasonable model or word for.
There's some very interesting things though that happen in normal space, just the space around us.
And when I return in just a moment after a brief break,
we will continue and examine some of the more common experiences of space
and some features of that that you might find very novel. Stay with me.
Silence is a kind of space.
And if I change the space between my words,
everything really starts to change.
And if I also match my music to that change,
we can feel a palpable sense of the power of space.
And of course music is a way of experiencing this,
but music depends fundamentally on silence in the same way that writing depends on space and time, both.
You can see with music, you actually can't ignore time. Time is included in the instructions.
And so music was an early hint that time and space might go together for the spatialization of music is also temporalized on the page.
But here's a space we don't really think much about.
The space of separation.
If I put my face up against the page, I'm not going to be able to read it. I've got to have some distance to read it.
Similarly, if I want to understand my own consciousness, I'm not going to understand it so much by having it.
I'm going to have to somehow move outside or above or below.
I need to get a perspective that I can turn back and look at it.
And since our consciousness is kind of what we know with, what we experience with, what we see with,
that can be pretty difficult to get enough space from that we can bend it back upon itself and look at itself.
And yet that is the birth of the mind.
We did that when we were a child, before we had a mind as such.
Theses did that a number of times throughout our evolutionary history.
But most recently, in order to refine the development of the representational minds that you and I are now both empowered by and trapped within,
are not so distant ancestors actually discovered consciousness itself.
And it's hard to even imagine what that could mean, but effectively many of the feelings and intuitions that we take for granted in our modern lives and thought
were completely unknown to people, say, 1800 years ago.
And in fact, many, many fundamental features of life were so different that their minds could not have been much like ours.
Except perhaps in their potential, their embodiment, it's very unlikely, for a reason similar to this.
So separation is a very interesting kind of thing.
The more distance you get, the more different kind, a different kind of intelligence you get.
If you look very close at something, you're looking at a quick speed, you're looking at a much faster speed.
If we looked closely at the table and saw the molecules, they'd be moving, not still.
If we look in a microscope, things are usually moving and living at a much faster rate of speed than at other orders of perception or size.
So that size and speed turn out to be somehow kind of related in a strange way.
In fact, they might be inseparable from time and space.
At least in a way that, like living time, we've not yet tried to understand.
I think we must, because our own minds and much of what we are depend upon these features of time and of space.
We have no language for, no concepts about, no common ones.
And we're going to need them.
In fact, we needed them a long time ago and we've been kind of lazy about them.
Consider for a moment a peculiar quality of space.
If we are looking at a landscape from within it, everything seems very immediate.
What we see is about what's happening to us right now.
As we move away from that landscape, the nature of our relationship, our visual relationship with time, is actually changing.
So that if we move far away and we are, as we are moving away, achieving an elevated perspective.
In other words, we're moving away not just in one dimension, but in two, at least.
Or if we were to look out on a vast vista from say a mountaintop, what we would see is nothing like this moment.
We would see a picture that is more or less unchanging.
In other words, we would see tiny changes day by day, but none of the extreme speed or flow of change that we would see if we descend into the landscape from the mountain.
And this is a bit like all of intelligence and all of life and all of perhaps death.
Death being the ultimate distance from life would be outside of time.
And so we would see all of life if that were useful or possible from any position beyond life, which I'm not claiming that it is.
But if it were, we would see all of life from a timeless position.
And so it may well be that our access to death is indeed both through the people that we know and the parts of ourselves and our bodies that have died.
All of our ancestors, most of us is dead.
I mean, you are the living representation of the inception of life on Earth.
That's a fuse at least four point, maybe 3.5 billion years old at least on Earth.
If it doesn't go beyond there in linear years, many, many more relational years.
In fact, many factors of that number of relational years.
At least 3.5 billion years old.
So 99.99999% of that is dead.
You're a little green tip, like a bristle cone pine tree that has like 1% of it is living, but it's 3000 years old.
You're like that.
You're a little living tip at the end of a long stream of death.
And that relationship is the source and body in some sense, not only of your intelligence, but of your potential.
And not just for intelligence, but for anything, for transcendence, for moving beyond anything that the humans are normally learning about, speaking about, thinking about, doing.
You were born to do that.
You know you came here for that.
That's why you entered this space and this relationship with space, form, time and death.
So I just want to suggest that there's something very peculiar about distance and that as we move close to something, that our relationship with time changes dramatically, move far enough away.
It becomes eternal.
And so when we look out into space, we think of traveling into eternity.
We do not realize that right here at hand.
It's just as possible, possibly more possible, because the eternity inside you is the living body of that eternity that seems to be out there.
We need to think about space in very different ways, which I really think is the best teacher.
There's a beautiful and impossible kind of space, but we also don't think much about our eyes.
Our eyes are an astonishing mode of space and our pupils, the center of our eyes, are particularly interesting.
Notice how the space has three major portions, the body of the eye, the iris, which is an incredibly beautiful physical structure, and the black pupil.
That pupil represents the space.
The eye represents space time.
The iris represents earth and living beings.
That pupil represents the space that is intelligent, and I would like to suggest rather shockingly that that pupil represents death.
And that death, that space, that constricting or dilating space that allows us to focus and to adjust to varying degrees of flow, of light, which is, in a sense, time.
That space is intelligence.
That space is the possibility of intelligence, just as I believe death and space, time and intelligence are all deeply, deeply linked.
But we don't think this way.
Yet death is the form of separation, the ultimate form that we must imagine is the sudden and probably unexpected experience of separation from all that is humanly familiar to us.
And that may happen in phases where it may happen suddenly.
I don't know.
But that's the ultimate kind of space, and perhaps it's a very unique kind of time, or at least separation.
And if separation is intelligence, well, that must be the ultimate kind of intelligence, because it's separation from all bounding, all binding.
You're no longer dimensionally, whatever you might have been is no longer dimensionally bound as the human body is, and as human minds seem to be, but in fact are not.
Most of our ideas are what keep the mind bound.
The body's bound to some degree by laws.
The mind is not.
And the mind is truly the child and master of time-space, death, intelligence, unity, separation, meaning, emergence, departure, the dawn, the twilight, the sunset.
Each modes of light, changing modes of light that change time and meaning and character.
So space, I think, is pure, undifferentiated intelligence, and at the edges it collects.
And wherever you see form, you're seeing the character of that space, including in speech, including in writing, including in art, very obviously, dance.
But more than anything in nature and living beings.
There is one other kind of space that I want to briefly touch on, and I will probably revisit this topic, particularly in light of the recent interest in Santa Muerte, the St. Death, very popular in South America, who I think is likely to be misinterpreted in the west,
probably dramatically because we think of death as an evil, dark, and bad thing, when in fact death may be the very heartbeat of intelligence itself.
How confused we would turn out to have been if that were the truth, if all that we loved was departing not into destruction, but pure, undifferentiated intelligence,
from which we ourselves will emerge, from which each moment of our minds are drawn actively.
So that all those dead and unborn speak here now with my own mouth, act with my own body, right with my own hands, just as we feel the noble and the true to have done,
just as we experience when finally someone can say something so beautiful and true and amazing that we are at last relieved of our shame at our lot in human birth,
and restored to the hope and chance of dignity, of wonder, of truth, of a kind of purity that is not perfection, but is nobility of purpose and insight.
And all of these things have to do with the topics we've explored here today, space, and time, and death, and intelligence, separation, unity, and all of the forms.
If there's a kind of living space we don't much examine and we need to before I go, it is that of water.
Look at the ocean, okay? That's a living version of outer space.
What are we doing there? Well, we're poisoning it, or ripping it apart, or mapping it with explosives.
That ocean, moment to moment, contributes to our own sentience, to the basis of our minds and intelligence.
Whatever we do there is done in our bodies and minds, instantaneously, not in the future, not in the cause and effect relationship.
But right now, that body of space is the body from which all living intelligence arose, and is the great conservation body of hope for our world.
We must never allow any violence or aggression against the bodies of water on earth, for these are the sources of life and intelligence.
And in our time, these bodies of water are the targets of lethally myopic collective bodies with no intelligence, were bent on profit,
on converting the future into little stacks of money and numbers and machines,
on converting our lives and bodies, on converting the hope and dreams of our ancestors and all living beings on earth.
Into a poisonous cesspool, and a temporal curse of shame for all human beings.
We cannot allow this. This is a fundamental blasphemy against the nature of time and space, intelligence and death.
We must protect the waters, for they are actually the very metaphor of consciousness itself.
Whatever is done in those, we will echo it.
And we have not yet begun to learn what the oceans, lakes, rivers and streams could teach us if we simply understood how to listen.
Before we obliterate them with poisons, for the sake of a few drops more energy or military power, or a little bit more knowledge,
better look very closely their own minds, because something's wrong.
We're making a serious set of mistakes and we're ramifying them dramatically with each new generation instead of resolving them.
We need to stop, reevaluate what's happening, develop some intelligence before we continue ripping the basis of its heartbeat and connectivity apart.
I'd like to end on a promise.
We believe that space travel is very difficult and that our people might never be able to, or that it will take us a long time or many sacrifices.
Yet there's a space inside us which we don't believe in and have never examined.
And there are other forms of space here near at hand.
The incredible dimensionality of nature herself, which is a mode of dimension that is intelligent beyond our wildest understandings.
We're busy looking in outer space for other intelligences, but we've failed to locate the myriad branches of incredibly advanced intelligence all around us,
and we haven't developed much of our own.
This could have a lot to do with having misunderstood space.
The things we've discussed here today are the beginnings of an antidote to these problems and they're simple.
They're not dogmatic.
You don't have to believe in me or a religion or a science or a tradition or anything to understand them.
You can just examine them yourself, expand on them.
Think of them as toys that you can radically expand because I hope that you will.
Our goal here together is to learn, to change how we relate, especially in language and thought, with space, time, separation and death,
so that we can begin to understand that degrees of liberty are important and there are many different kinds of them.
The diversity in the biosphere is the fundamental source of liberty and intelligence for human beings on earth.
We must protect and understand it with every aspect of our humanity, our technology and our intelligence.
Let's develop some while we still have a chance.
Together, we've definitely got a good one.
Thanks for joining me.
Bye-bye for now.
