Hello, everybody. I'm out for a walk on a rather breezy day, so probably get a little
bit of wind noise on the mic from time to time, but I've checked in and made a recording
in the wind to see how loud it is, and I think it's probably something we can live with.
My apologies if you find it distracting or disturbing. It's nice when there's no extraneous
sounds, but we live in a world where there's lots of extraneous things going on, or fundamental
things like the breeze. And perhaps the breeze is appropriate to my topic today. Breezes are
often associated with spirit, and thus we have the word inspiration, which both means to feel
excited and aroused and motivated, and also means to breathe in. The associations of this word are
deepened rich and ancient, and take into their compass the fact of our breathing and its fundamental
relationship with being. Wind, we draw wind in, we make inward wind, and then we express outward
wind. And on a cold day you'll see the changing cloud swirling, cloud of mist and steam that
comes out from our lungs. Today I was listening to Tim Ferriss talking with Swami. I listened to a lot
these days whose name I cannot remember yet. He's part of the Ramakrishna order, and I love his
podcasts, they're great. And the two topics that I want to explore today are consciousness and the divine
being. The being ordinarily referred to as God. Here's a very old bell. It's like a cowbell or something. It has a nice tone.
So, in modern neuroscience, there's a continuum of positions. But science in general presents and
authorizes a reductionist materialistic perspective. This is natural to this way of knowing. And it's very
powerful, particularly in producing insights about the world of transactional reality or the material
world as we think of it. It's funny, there's a beautiful lake here. There's actually a few of them around
here. And I know these lakes well, I grew up around them. But they are completely fenced off. They are private
lakes. There is no way for any person to get to the water. Cannot be done. Of course, in theory, one could climb
the fences. But even then, one would have access only to a very, very tiny portion of the lake, because the lakes are
surrounded with houses. And I love these lakes. And I'd like to go to them and be on them in a boat, or swim in them,
or, well, when I was younger, I would fish in them. I don't think I could fish now. I'm a very skillful fisherman. But
I don't think I could hurt the beings, the worms and the fishes and such. And some people will say, oh,
you're a hypocrite. You eat meat. But you don't kill the meat. So, you know,
this is a very abstract concern from one perspective.
And a realistic concern from another. I think the reason I bring up the lake and the fences
is partly because it's right here in my experience right now.
But it's an excellent analogy of our modern relationship with both the divine world
or the origin world, as I like to call it. And also with consciousness.
There's been a bunch of structure that's erected all around these ideas. And the structure
doesn't let us swim. We can't go to the water,
because the structure creates a barrier between us and the water in thought.
And in this analogy, the water is our original nature, our true nature,
which is discoverable to us, but very peculiarly occluded, very effectively occluded.
If we could figure out how to jump the fence and go for a swim in our original nature,
what excellent and beautiful bliss would be ours forever thereafter.
But even if we are aware of this, the occlusions are so trenchant
that most of us will find it very challenging
unless we are naturally gifted or inclined to this endeavor.
In a sense, what we refer to as consciousness or what I will refer to as consciousness in this
discussion, and I'll try to make clear what it is I'm speaking of there,
and what I'm referring to as the direct experience of divinity or the divine
the divine itself, but also most often we will experience a layer of it if we have some experience.
There was, I think, a brain surgeon, perhaps his name will come to me,
who wrote a book, Proof of Heaven, because he had the experience of being clinically dead,
and during that experience,
he, well, of course, he had some experience when supposedly his brain was dead.
Now, neuroscientists and others will argue I received a phone call which broke my train of
thought. Let's see if I can retrieve it. So the surgeon or neurologist guy, he had some experience
and scientists will try to explain this away in various ways, and there's lots of ways to do that.
We can say that the temporality of his experience is confused, that he actually had this experience
before he died clinically, his brain was dead. Now, of course, what they mean by dead is there's
no electrical activity in the brain, and he had a very catastrophic brain infection,
and in fact, there's no reasonable way that we can understand in modern medical science
for why he could survive this, or even survive it and return to normal function,
as a human being, quote unquote, normal function. And I think his name is Eben Alexander,
if I'm remembering right, and he came back and wrote a book about heaven, and made the claim that,
and this is a truth claim, that because he had experience while he was dead,
this proves that there's an afterlife. There's a couple of problems here. The first is,
of course, he had some kind of an experience and he has memories of this experience, and then he
narratizes these memories, he makes a narrative out of them, and decides what they mean, and what
the experiences are, their ontological nature, and so on, and how he knows what they are,
the epistemology, and so on. And I'm not here to deny his experience, or even really his interpretation,
but I would ask that we admit together that it's an interpretation, and that after the experience,
post-hoc, he created a narrative for a specific array of purposes. Obviously, he was inspired,
haha, by his experience, but he nonetheless interpreted it for specific purposes, and
including the writing of books and such. Now, I too have profound non-ordinary experience.
I have tried to resist the urge to specifically narratize it, so if someone says to me, do you
know exactly what happened to you? I'll say no, I do not know. I can say what I think it was like,
and I have narratives and ideas about it, but I don't reify them explicitly the way that Ebon
did, and continues to do. And obviously, Ebon thinks there's some great benefit, if we believe him,
that we will be enlightened and educated and relieved of wrong-minded ideas and so forth,
and I too have similar beliefs about my experiences.
I think the thing that's important to understand is that it's very difficult for humans to resist
the urge to narratize experience, post-hoc, and that presents a bunch of problems.
Now, if someone asks me the question of, what do I think happens when we die? Well,
this is a peculiarly troublesome question, because in our ordinary ways of thinking,
we are inclined to think in a very clumsy way, a way that proposes either this or that happens,
and the same thing happens for everyone. This is not like our actual experience or nature.
Let me be very clear. Think about the fact that each one of us has been born. We developed
in the womb of our mother after she was fertilized by our father, or at least some sperm,
and then we had a very specific and unique experience inside the womb developmentally,
just as each one of our mothers is in a unique situation in her life, and health, and relationships.
So, we had a very unique experience in the womb, and then we emerged from the womb,
each one of us with a specific family born into specific cultures, epochs of
modernity, or the past, and then we developed. So, what I mean to say here is that it is a fact
that we all underwent development and birth, but it is a wildly different result
of that process for each one of us. Now, this isn't to say that some of our lives,
there are resemblances in our experience of having been born and developing as a child,
and becoming adults, and so on. There are features that are shared that we can generally say are
true of all of us. For example, we eat food, we learn language, but we each have a unique
relationship with food and language, and even though there are many shared things,
there are probably vastly more unique things, and certainly we can imagine that it's very different
to be born to a family of slaves somewhere in, who knows where, Syria or India somewhere,
than it is to be born to a wealthy and privileged family somewhere.
We are each born with unique gifts and vulnerabilities, and so although we undergo the
same experience of birth, and we are all alive in a general sense, if we look very closely,
we will find that this is profoundly unique for each person. The fact that we all have the
experience of birth does not reduce being born to the same thing for all people.
It turns out that being born initiates a human lifetime, and each human lifetime
and each person's life experience is probably far more unique than it is similar to those of other
people. So when we ask a question like, what happens after death?
The question, what happens after birth, is an important and enlightening question that we have
actual direct experience of. We each have a unique experience of something that happened
after birth, or all the things that happened after birth. And so we must imagine, you know,
some humans are born, and they have no hands. Some humans are born, and they have no eyes.
Some humans are born, and they cannot form a coherent mind, as we understand them.
Some humans are born and become incredibly athletic. Some humans are born and become great
Some humans are born and become great prodigies or artists.
Some humans overcome what we think of as developmental challenges.
And some humans don't. So there's an infinite array of possibilities that begin with birth.
And similarly, we must imagine that if anything happens after death,
it is probably at least as unique to each being as it is generally the same.
It probably resembles birth in both that there are generalized shared aspects of whatever may
happen. And then there are unique, what we might think of as personal aspects, although
it's unclear that the experience of being post death of the body
is a personal experience, since the word personal applies to those of us who have been born.
We might say that there's a shared domain of transpersonal experience after death,
if we decide that anything happens at all. Now, of course, there are two fundamental positions.
One is death is the absolute end of all things. There's nothing after it.
It's pretty hard to imagine nothing, by the way. Try it sometime. See how difficult it is.
But this is one of the positions that everything about my consciousness being,
awareness, soul, and so on ends there at the moment of death.
Now, of course, death is not really a moment. Death is a process, and it's a complex, long process,
very poorly understood by humans, which is part of why Evan's experience is confusing,
both to him and other people, especially doctors. How could he have large portions of his brain
eaten away by bacteria and then, you know, essentially wake up with reports of having
been to heaven, quote unquote, that's his narrative, and then relatively quickly return to what appears
to pretty much everyone as normal human function, should be impossible if our understanding of the
brain and so on, our clinical understanding, it's not our understanding, it's clinical understanding,
is correct. Once again, we have the same problem here of generalizing something that's extremely
unique in each instance, a brain. Yes, probabilistically, it's very unlikely that this would happen to
someone, that they could have an experience like this, and that they could return to normal function,
and so on. But it happened. And this is part of the problem with generalized knowledge.
Generalized knowledge accounts for probabilities over cohorts. Any specific individual, quote unquote,
is a unique instance. And so things that seem impossible, when we look at the overall picture,
are not only possible, they are actual, in specific instances. Someone lives to be 130.
Wrong, someone does.
So the two basic positions are, there's some continuity of being,
post death of the body, which again is not just the cessation of the heartbeat, cessation of brain
signals. People return to life after both of those things with some degree of regularity,
meaning not zero people return. And I've wandered a bit of field here, but I've done so
with a purpose in mind. So one of the things that happened for Eben is he got to swim in the ocean.
All right, he got through the barriers.
With his body essentially dead, something we might call his consciousness had a profound
non-ordinary experience. And then when he returned to waking consciousness from this experience,
he could recall what had happened, albeit selectively, and then narratize it and present us
with a story of what happened. Probably the difference between me and him is he believes
his story, I'm more inclined to believe his experience and be a little bit suspicious of
his narratization. Similarly, the story we tell about a dream is not a dream. Dreaming is a profoundly
non-ordinary event, but usually happens when we're asleep, though there are probably hundreds
of forms of dreaming, many of which used to happen regularly when we were when we were awake.
There's going to be a little wind noise for a bit here as I go down and visit the water
in the San Joaquin Delta.
So this is one place where even though there's a lot of fences, I can get down near the water,
and that seems like a good idea to give them a topic at hand.
And the fact that I adore the water.
So Evan broke through all the fences and structure by dying. There's other ways to break through it,
or even to render the structure and fences partly permeable.
I am most fond of experiences that do not involve or require the use of intoxicants,
though I will mention that psychedelics are one of the methods of rendering some of the
structure permeable. I'm going to pause now because of how much wind there is,
and I'll come back in a moment.
So I tend to prefer
inductions to ecstasy and non-ordinary experience that do not involve intoxicants
for a wide variety of reasons. And most of the people who've listened to my talks
are aware of this peculiarity. There's lots of dangers, particularly for moderns,
because we don't have intelligent ancient cultures that would encompass these experiences
and provide wise context. Nonetheless, it seems reasonably true that certain kinds of psychedelic
drugs soften some of the barriers between us and the Great Waters, being,
and wisdom, and insight, awakening, liberation.
And often this is accomplished simply by inhibiting things
that are ordinarily very powerful
features of our waking world consciousness.
I think neuroscientists, if I remember the research correctly, were surprised to discover
that people under the influence of psychedelic mushrooms
rather than having wild activation of various brain areas experienced unexpected inhibition
of certain brain areas.
In any case,
there are infinite ways to soften the barrier between us and the Great Waters.
Meditation of various kinds is well known to be effective at accomplishing this.
And rhythmic input is very powerful. I was just standing on a dock in the water,
and the dock was rocking with the waves, and that by itself is a very powerful induction.
It is possible that certain forms of hypnotic induction can be useful in this.
But fundamentally, for most of human history,
non-ordinary experience was catalyzed by one of a fairly small number of participatory experiences.
Experiences where there is profound passion, longing, need, or desire.
Some experiences of crisis, but particularly experiences in which groups of humans who
are intimately related to each other, tribally as families and so on, got together and danced
and drummed and rattled and sang and screamed. These kinds of things, these are probably the
most ancient group inductions for humans. It seems clear also that animals undergo various forms of
trance. In some forms of trance, render barriers more permeable. Almost lost my hat right there.
And in a way, we can think of the experience, having the experience of the barriers becoming
permeable, a bit like losing a hat. There's something on top of our consciousness that continually
inhibits our access to the great waters of being, the great waters of origin. And there are certain
kinds of experiences that suddenly remove the barriers for us.
Hi!
A deep experience of the friendliness of strangers.
