Build your own floating city at any cost without, let's not even examine the costs.
Well, the cost is of course the environment, our intelligence, our humanity, our relational opportunities, our identity because without connection with each other and nature,
very deep, profound connection that overwhelms anything else, we cannot know ourselves.
So we're sort of in a situation where we are a terrain that is being competed over in an invisible dimension that we don't pay attention to and language is one of the primary forces of that competition and it sets us up to be crippled.
It sets us up to be its servant. It sets us up to follow its dictation about what we can be, do, think, find, become.
And all those setups are lies and they're deadly lies.
Now that's not so bad, right? Because what happens is we're born into human culture first and then we're sort of encased in this protective shell of human culture,
which is all the things we're talking about, language and media and what human cultures do, which is pretty rapacious and ugly on the whole,
but especially as concerns nature, which is our own body, so it's hard to say anything else.
Some cultures are more humane than others by far and some are far less stridently violent than others by far and certainly these are better.
But we don't really have any cultures that are examples of what we would prosper in because it's impossible so far in the modern milieu.
The cultures we have, as I said, are the towering monolithic shadows of ways of knowing that are completely disconnected from life in nature
and have to do more with metricity, measuring things, evaluating them objectively, determining values according to cash dollars.
The weird thing is, of course, cash dollars are made of blood in every case and we just don't notice that and lots of kinds of blood, not just one.
Anyway, so what are we going to do about all this? How can we use the information that I've been examining here profitably?
Well, the first thing is we can realize the difference between a helpful thrisp and a conversionist thrisp.
In other words, an aggressive dominating thrisp, an idea that wants to convert you to spread it.
It doesn't lift you above it, which is what a positive thrisp would do. There's a couple of kinds of positive thrisps.
The first one is it lifts you up and makes you so much more intelligent than you were that you're not going to repeat the thrisp.
You're going to do something so amazing that you're going to shock yourself and probably everybody else.
So this is something you encounter that just gives you a lift up and then disappears poof into the background.
It does not want to be sustained, grand eyes copied. It wants you to become something more than it.
This is very positive. There's another kind of thrisp that attacks domineering thrisps and takes them down, right?
It would be like, imagine a thrisp that connected itself to everything in your mind and then flipped a switch and destroyed itself so that they all went with it
and all of their predatory illusions disappeared poof in one fell swoop.
You'd never find the thrisp that did that because it doesn't advertise itself or run around asking copy me, copy me or convert you.
It actually sneaks in in the night like a thief, but instead of stealing yourself, it steals your prison.
And we are these kinds of beings and we are meant to be these kinds of beings.
And our minds are something so profound that they're worth competing over and for because I want to tell you, you've never seen really what it is.
If you haven't reestablished in the deepest way outside of human culture your connections to nature that inform the structure of your intelligence and your mind
in a way nothing like any human story, nothing like any human dream, in a way beyond all stories and dreams.
If you haven't had this experience or something very, very like it that has profoundly lifted you out of our culture,
then you're probably still in a cage that you feel but cannot quite describe or evade.
And you're probably still trying to understand, well, what is this thing that I am?
What is this mind?
And let me tell you something. A mind is what I began to talk about in the beginning.
It's not a fortified city. It's not just terrain to compete over.
The reason it's being so fiercely attacked and dominated is because of what I said in the beginning.
It is the fulcrum of possibility for the entire biosphere, your mind.
A single mind, all human history can turn on one mind's movements.
What? With your mind, you can change the meaning of every word and gesture that was ever made on Earth with a single move.
Your mind changes the nature of identity. If you decide that it instead receives it,
your intelligence has been amputated and replaced with a mimic that is not only not intelligent, it can never become intelligent.
You do not receive information. You are not computing device.
You participate directly in the recognition, emergence, acknowledgement and transformation of being, of meaning, of identity.
And language doesn't allow you to do this ordinarily.
In order to do this with language, you have to reach a tier of relation with language and with knowledge
where your position is above them, not below. That doesn't mean that you know.
In fact, that might mean that you are liberated from knowing. It doesn't mean that you are an expert.
It means that your fluency is liberated from expertise.
To achieve a position above language and human knowledge is not difficult and nature will happily give you one
if you can simply reestablish that those initial connections that you were born with that remain alive in you,
though the culture shuts them off and denies them, the languages that we use to shut them off and deny them.
And there's a simple topic that's deeply related to this process, which is this.
There are certain key elements that if you contact nature will be corrected.
What happens when we're embedded in human culture is that we're protected and we're given knowledge authorities.
So we're told who to believe and then we accept their thrips and we use those to grow our minds.
And that's natural as long as we can escape that process later.
So what happens is we're born into human culture and then we get protected by it.
They build a shell, a second sort of womb around us, a cultural womb.
And this is assembled of cultural thrips and the thrips we acquire in our relationships and our own thoughts and dreams and all the other things.
But these ideas, of course, concepts that come to us in language and in cultural relation, which I'm calling thrips, which are like memes.
These are the primary building blocks.
So these are what we assemble and reassemble and break apart.
And so we're given authorities, knowledge authorities.
They are first our parents and then later cultural knowledge authorities in books and academia, in science and religion, in folk knowledge, in history, in literature.
And these authorities, many of which are dangerous and many of which are valuable and almost all of which are valuable and dangerous actually.
We become sort of enthralled by them and we come used to sucking at the tit, right?
So we're used to getting information from outside authorities and looking up to them and that won't work.
Eventually what's going to happen is you have to crack the shell open.
In fact, the shell is supposed to protect you until you're ready.
You shouldn't be just cracked out right away necessarily, though some people can.
So this process prepares you over time to crack the shell, but you should know that you are supposed to.
And if you don't, you will be confused.
And you should know that when you crack the shell, you're supposed to go all the way out of human culture,
not according to some New Age mythos or the Pleidians or Eckhart Tolly or Darren or anybody, right?
All the way outside human culture, all the way into nature, all the way, all the way.
So that you reestablish and reawaken those transports that were chopped off by the culture
and replaced with the shell-building materials that were used while you tried to construct your mind
or the local assets that would function to give you participation in mind, in humanity, in intelligence.
And you had to build those locally and you protect them, too.
And that's reasonable.
You do have local assets.
I just don't think your mind is entirely local in the way we pretend, right?
And we do need to protect those assets, but we don't need to defend thrips.
We need to defend intelligence and figure out the difference.
So anyway, we build this shell.
We get these authorities.
And what's going to happen later if you break it is, and this is the crucially important thing,
and this is part of what I'm trying to do here right now,
you'll be reconnected with the true authorities of knowledge, identity, and value.
And they are far outside all human culture.
You cannot find them in books.
They cannot be written down.
No person can teach you them.
In fact, they are so profoundly personal that they must remain unspoken and absolutely personal to you.
They will not be spooky religious things, believe me.
When you, these are very sobering, soul-shocking revelations that will rock you to the core of your being.
They will rock you into silence, not into business, okay?
Not into advertisement.
They will rock you into the silence of dread, wonder, in awe and ecstasy, and terror of ecstasy,
beyond anything you can imagine, okay?
That's when you, when you, if you have any chance to encounter the authorities of which the human toys are shadows in yourself and in nature,
they will reestablish a new world and mind inside you, and that is why I'm saying these things.
So that if you've never heard them before, someone will say them to you.
And so that you will have a chance to realize, firstly, A, that your mind is not at all what you've been taught.
I don't care what you were studying.
It's not in any book.
There's no book you can find.
And if you start believing the things in a book, you're going to get a little more confused, probably.
Your mind is like nothing that can be described.
It touches all other minds in all of time, not just here.
It touches your future self.
It contains all of your past moments and not just that.
It, it, it is not a possession and it, and it is moment to moment how to describe the power it has.
It is the arbiter of identity, value, beauty, holiness and meaning in all of time.
You have something so precious that our cultures and languages have been absolutely desperate to bury it.
If you got anywhere near the actual capacities you're walking around with and using for purposes that are difficult to understand in relation to your opportunities
and wondering why you feel frustrated and unfulfilled, this is the reason.
You were born to fly, but everything that you've been taught has demanded that you crawl and when you crawl the crowds cheer.
Well, I don't think you were born for that.
And the place we were born to fly in is not the sky.
It is the dimension of relation between living beings and minds.
And in that dimension, let me explain something.
Flight in that dimension makes the wildest ecstasy you've ever imagined look pretty slender and timid in comparison.
So I'd like to retrieve that together.
And one of the ways we can do that is by thinking about and talking about our minds, using our minds in new ways.
There's one final thing I'd like to visit, which is an incredibly powerful asset in thinking about and playing with our opportunities here.
It's the idea of a root concept that intelligence is based on.
There are many of them in all languages that are shared in all human languages.
There are things like the sun, a tree, an animal, time, light, love, a dream, food, a mother, a world, the moon, a star.
These root concepts, a plant, a book, a hand, a friend, separation.
These root concepts convey powerful fundamental meaning elements to all other concepts, including each other.
This is a highly ramified system that underlies human intelligence that we've not recognized.
These root concepts, tree, star, love, light, planet, hand, eye, animal, tree, have become degraded, so degraded over time by abstraction,
that they no longer connect us to what they're supposed to connect us to.
And not only that, when they are damaged, our intelligence cannot be itself, it cannot become intelligent.
These are the roots upon which all their meaning is based.
So the fact that they've been damaged, we don't know what a tree is.
We think a tree is so ridiculous that it means we can't be intelligent.
That's what I'm actually saying.
The English definition of a tree is so stupidifying that if you were to just believe it, it would be game over for your intelligence,
because it's nothing like what a tree is at all.
And we believe the definitions, and we use them, and when that happens, our intelligence begins to die.
So what I'm trying to say here is something really radical.
Our intelligence has been corrupted by abstraction.
That means pretending that they're just numeric values and just ideas, names for things.
That can be repaired, and when we do that, our intelligence skyrockets.
If you reconnect with nature, what will happen is she will correct these roots, each one of them.
Along with your knowledge authorities, the roots of your intelligence will be corrected,
and you will learn more properly what water is, what a friend means, what a tree is, what the sun is, what the earth is, what an animal is.
And you will learn in a way that no human culture can ever introduce you to, and this must happen.
Now we can teach each other, if someone comes back from this experience, with these repaired knowledge authorities
and with repaired thrisp awareness so that they can select now and with repaired ability to transmit these root corrections.
Like to help explain something more like what a tree is so that we can have that experience again and not just the idea.
Then that's very healing. That's a kind of powerful medicine. We can do that together.
But we each have to learn to understand these and related issues in our own ways and struggle with them together,
because we're not going to be able to solve any of the activist issues that are sitting on our hearts and minds
and the necessity of our generation if we cannot establish something more like intelligence.
And we can't do that if the roots of meaning have been corrupted, if we don't know what a tree is.
And if our minds are being constantly assaulted by domineering thrisps and cultural monoliths like government
and now corporations like Google and Facebook.
So I want us to begin to think about how to use our minds more like and more wisely than the technologies we're deploying
because these technologies are replacing them and what they're replacing them with is abstractions
and more conduits for domineering thrisps.
We together, five of us, have more power than any nation on earth.
Our minds are the arbiters of identity, not the recipients.
They are the arbiters of meaning and truth, not the mere, they do not just merely sit in judgment, right?
When we come on the scene, everything changes and that means we have the chance to change it.
We have the opportunity to change it. It's our responsibility to change it.
Unfortunately, we've been in the egg so long we become purely passive and we're used to having everything given to us.
It's not going to work.
In nature, that won't last five minutes.
In your conversation with nature, you're going to have to be absolutely assertive and actively intelligent
and looking for every clue as if you were Sherlock Holmes and your life depended on the next ten seconds of your sensing.
And that lesson will teach you how to live in and with and beyond human culture and how to transform it together.
Thanks for listening. Enjoy.
