I've been thinking a lot about, actually for most of my life, about what does it mean to have a mind?
What is a mind?
Now of course, in English we can become, or even begin, very confused because of the way our language works.
Our language encourages us to believe that we possess things locally, so that for example, I have a brain.
Now that's a little bit silly because how can I have what I am?
I cannot have the kiss I give, but I can have a brain.
Actually that doesn't make too much sense.
Because my brain is everything.
The way the brain is is not, although it's physically, you know, discontiguous with the rest, it seems to be physically discontiguous with the rest of reality, it's not.
And in fact, not only is it not discontiguous, in other words, not only is it not disconnected from everything, it actually creates new ways for things to be connected.
Think about that carefully. That's a very different kind of presence in an environment.
You're not merely connected or connecting.
Your presence creates whole new ways for everything in that environment to become themselves, and that means you are the fulcrum of opportunity for that environment.
Your thoughts, ways of seeing and choices will decide everything.
You aren't a god, but you're the next best thing in terms of a biological environment.
You're about as close as it gets because just by showing up on the scene, you can change radically the roles of every living organism and all of those relationships that are thousands of billions of life years old.
They are in fact, unlike our common thoughts, they are older than the universe.
And so, that's not inside my head. I don't possess that.
But the brain that I possess in the nervous system and my flesh and the organs, even where I had to say, like, my mind is in my brain, which seems a very reasonable thing to say, I have to admit, absolutely reasonable.
But not necessarily as true as it looks, because first of all, my brain is my entire body.
It really is. There's no part of my body that isn't my brain.
We think of our brain as being in our heads, and it's true that the organ that we call the brain is in the skull.
And we say that it's connected to the rest of the body, but that's not true.
It's not connected because it's not distinct. It's not a part.
See, machines have parts, but humans don't, and so you can't possess a part.
Now, it can also seem that you could lose a part, because, for example, were some imaginary being that doesn't actually exist at all to lose some portion of its body that we don't even know the name of,
then we could say it no longer had a nameless body part thing that we don't know the name of, whatever that was.
It no longer had one, as if it had previously possessed one, but it didn't really possess what it was.
You don't possess what you are. The Earth doesn't possess a planet. See, that's the thing.
And similarly, we don't possess a brain, but our language inclines us to believe that we do, and it inclines us to believe lots of strange things.
For example, things that actually can't be true if you look at them with much clarity, we possess a self that, myself, is something I have.
I have to then defend and protect and sustain and examine it from time to time, make sure its shoes are tied and things like this, or that its zipper is pulled up in the case of a man.
Yes, yes, anyway.
So, we think we possess things, and particularly we think we possess minds, and what I've discovered, and I'm not finished by a long shot, I don't have any idea yet what a mind is,
but I have such a unique and beautiful sense of it, and my experience of it is so profound that I can be very certain I do not possess one.
At the same time, I have all the ordinary feelings and thoughts that a regular person does who thinks they have a mind.
I act like I possess a mind, I feel like I possess myself and my mind, but I don't, I don't.
And I know when I think carefully that I don't, and I can even find situations where I don't even seem to, for example, in dreaming,
or in states of high creativity where my mind seems to be moved by flows and forces far beyond my can, or especially in nature,
or in deep, intimate, playful communion with any other being or living place, yeah, in these things.
There is this freedom from possession of self and mind, which I think is a myth, and we live in a culture that highlights and emphasizes individuals and individuality and individual rights and things like this.
The really strange thing about that is that it's impossible, it's a complete fiction.
I don't think socialism is any different, but the idea, I mean socialism is also a fiction in my opinion.
Well, the way that we frame things is a fiction, is fictional.
But what I'm trying to say simply is that the idea that we exist as sort of reified individuals, abstracted from each other and nature and things,
we can pretend that we locally possess minds, but we don't, and I'll give you a simple example.
You can imagine a guy, I've used this example many times, but you can imagine almost anything, right?
Any kind of surprising event that was unexpected is going to radically change what our mind is, and in fact, not only that,
simple things like expectations radically alter our brain chemistry and produce a different mode of intelligence instantly.
Some better, some worse.
When we, for example, feel that our ideas may be criticized or are going to come under scrutiny and be evaluated by others,
we tend to lose intelligence rapidly, whereas if we feel supported and encouraged in an environment that will allow us to experiment,
to make mistakes and, you know, retract what we say and try over again and things like this,
then we tend to have available to us much more intelligence, and then other ridiculous things.
You can just, like, hold your hands above your head in a victory salute and kind of look at the sky and go,
yes, yes, and sort of be really excited for a moment, and your intelligence will increase,
your ability to face obstacles and situations will probably, for most of us, suffer or, you know, undergo a fairly significant increase.
So that's really strange, isn't it?
Because if I, if I possess a mind, and it's just so, so variable that I can radically alter its function,
and it will be altered by the presence of other beings and places, again, our, I think our model of it is a bit confused.
We model it as something that we receive stuff, and then we process it, and then we re-express it.
And I won't say that's not happening.
By the way, you can enjoy the canine mind outside, which it's relevant to my discussion.
I don't know if you can hear it for sure, but you probably can, and if you can, it's relevant.
There's a dog barking outside a lot.
Yeah, there it is.
And it's protecting a very small territory, which is an automobile, and it's doing something that happens if we think we are individuals.
It's doing something that happens when we feel we have a small, compressed terrain that is everything and has to be defended at all costs.
You can see the outcome of this kind of thinking in much of what the United States has become.
And also in the kinds of people who tend to arise to take advantage of that situation.
Back to our topic.
The reason the dog is relevant is that when I began this discussion, I was thinking about how we can imagine the mind as a kind of locally fortified city, in a way.
Now, no city exists in isolation.
They might have once a long ago, but they don't anymore.
And I think what they were long ago was very different, too, in many ways.
But a mind is a bit like a strange fortification.
Of course, it has transports in and out.
The senses, language, seeing, especially.
We're very, very visually oriented culture.
Particularly in our case, media, human produced media is one of the primary transports into the fortified city.
Much like the car outside with the dog barking.
And these transports carry something we don't really have language about.
Any of what I'm trying to talk about here.
The closest thing we have is sort of Dawkins' idea of a meme, which I'm not even fully conversant with.
I don't necessarily subscribe fully to it, although it's a very useful idea.
What I want to talk about is minds.
And so I want to shape for you the idea that our minds comprise a terrain, much like land.
And in the same way that land is often, we often enter conflict over ownership or use
or the ability, the opportunity to harvest the assets of land.
Land is something we really value and we will do anything to keep it.
In fact, it's why we go to war, supposedly.
And we seem to think we possess it.
We're very possessive about land.
So I want you to think of our minds as a terrain.
And I want you to think of them a bit as a forest that exists in a relational dimension.
So it's like a space-time dimension, but it's invisible.
It's all what all of the things that happen relationally exist in this dimension and affect this dimension.
And our mind is a strange interface with that relational dimension.
And in fact, it is an instance of it.
And in this relational dimension, where every mind exists, you can imagine it like a world.
Imagine just an earth that has no surface.
It just has these little connected minds.
So what it has are every human mind is connected.
We'll just imagine a network of human minds all over the face of this.
They're not physical.
They just make them little circles and connect them with lines.
So imagine all the human minds as little circles connected with lines.
And these little circles are our fortified cities.
And then imagine that there's many lines going into each circle
and that aggregates of the circle produce, you know, they live in a bigger circle
and that big circle has lines going into all its members.
That's the culture.
The big circle is a projection of the aggregate, an upscale projection of its members.
And it creates culture in its own image and sort of reprograms its members strangely enough.
It becomes a...
Well, we've seen how corporations and governments become something more than individuals in their own right.
And we can also see that they're not very intelligent.
They don't care much about individuals.
In fact, they can be quite and generally are quite inhuman.
Yet we trust our lives and planet and children to them,
which I think will prove to be a mistake we will recover from,
but we're going to need to do that.
So our minds are a relational domain and they're like little bubbles in that domain
and they're connected to each other and to the culture and to nature.
Now as we broke the connections to nature, we strengthened the connections to each other.
And then when we broke those connections, we strengthened the connections to the culture.
So now with a lot of our cultural connections broken and a lot of our interpersonal connections
that used to exist broken, families and such,
we now depend on the culture for our connectivity and that's a very, as I think you can imagine, dangerous situation.
But I want you to think about what lives in this terrain because something lives there much like animals live in a forest.
And these animals, so to speak, are highly intelligent.
They're a little bit like competing predators,
but they don't eat each other so much as they go after ownership of mines like that dog owning that car back then.
And they take over mines and then they defend them and they use them to convert new terrain for their own benefit.
And these little animal-like things that I'm going to ask us to imagine inhabit the transports in our media.
And I'm making one right now by the way, I'm making a bunch of them.
They are ideas, they're concepts, they're called thrips.
And this is just a toy that I make to talk about a way to think about how our minds and intelligence work.
So thrips run back and forth across these transports.
We trade them with each other and that's what we're doing here on Facebook.
It's not exactly memes because these thrips use us both as a resource.
They convert us to their reproduction.
So they use us like a reproductive organ.
And they use us to dominate and transport themselves along those connections between the mines and between the culture and the individuals.
And those connections I call the mimula and the terrain of human minds I call a cognizium.
So we are all members of the human cognizium.
You have a local cognizia and that is connected to other cognizia via connections I call the mimula.
Forgive me for the complex language I like to play with language.
So we are members of a cognizium, the human cognizium and that's a dimension of thought and relation.
And in that dimension these animals like thrips compete for us like fruit.
And they take us over in droves and Christianity is a good example.
So is democracy, so is socialism, so is materialism, commerciality, the wealth cult, on and on.
English is a thripset.
All of our knowledge is really built out of ramified thrips and so we don't actually know how to manipulate these directly.
We are mostly servants of them.
You can learn how to manipulate them directly.
But again I am just making a toy.
I am not asking you to pretend reality is as I am saying.
We are just looking at a model.
So we have minds, they are all connected and they used to be connected to nature and we used to acquire thrips from nature.
We no longer do, we largely acquire them from culture.
We used to acquire thrips from deep intimate relation with each other and nature, with each other in nature and with each other outside of nature.
We don't do that so much anymore.
We acquire and trade mostly cultural thrips now.
These have nothing in our favor.
They are like the equivalent of eating poisonous junk food that makes you feel powerful but is toxic and will kill you.
And we don't know how to manage them.
We don't even know how to manage language.
In fact, our language is so broken we think we possess minds when in fact we are sharing them.
I really mean we are sharing them and that's why there is no such thing as a psychic because we don't really have local minds.
And in order for there to be psychism, your mind has to be local to you but it isn't.
The reason it's not local is obvious it's connected to everything in all of time.
By those little lines, the mimula.
And they used to connect you to nature but most of our human cultures either snipped that connection off, they amputated.
Or they co-opted so severely that they give you a bunch of fairy stories that are so thick and stupefying that you'll never see through them.
To actually open up the transport and get what is waiting for you in communion with nature, with living beings.
Which is something so astonishing that it cannot be described and anyone who tries is pretty much lying.
Especially if they are not just singing and crying and dancing when they are trying to describe it because that's about as close as you can get.
It doesn't fit in language well.
When you talk about it in language you have to claim that you have to openly tell people this is nothing like it.
I'm just making a toy of it at best as I am doing here.
So we have these minds and they are a little bit like fortifications.
They connect and media, corporations, things like this, they want to take over those connections.
They want to manage them very severely as you can see with the NSA.
The NSA knows that we are all now using the cultural mimula of the internet which is the replacement for the natural mimula that used to exist between us.
The internet is the new one.
It got replaced in pieces. The first one was writing, radio, television, supercultures.
It went on and on. I'm not going to go into all the detail but we ended up with the internet and we are going beyond that now.
The internet is our new mimula.
And you can see on the internet the reflections or the shadows of thrips at war.
And you can see people actually at war defending and propagating thrips but not their own ideas and not their own insight.
Notice that? Thrips, not us. Thrips, not nature.
Culture, not humans. Corporations, not children. Governments, not environments. Prisons, not lives.
Does it sound hyperbolic? It's not hyperbolic enough.
Because the thing that is producing the thrips that our minds are being built with and are sustaining themselves in and around or immersed in is not only not human.
It's a shadow of certain processes of abstraction and those have zero regard or awareness of living beings, places or futures.
They are about metrics, quantification, measurement right now. Put some money in the bank.
Make a pile of cash. Succeed.
Show your success in human terms.
Build your own wonderland. Build your own Disneyland.
