So it was like, I think it was like three rivers we crossed.
We got out there and this man is somehow related to my ex-wife.
And we explained what I wanted.
I wanted some police protection because I was always worried about getting killed by police, especially back then.
So I wanted police protection.
So he gave me something.
It was so special.
I wish he'd never took it away from me because that was my heart.
He gave me something really special.
This thing.
Okay, so he had a big farm.
A lot of chickens and animals.
He had one of his little boys, maybe a year old boy or something, go out and grab one of the chickens.
And I watched the boy try to grab a chicken, try this one.
He tried that one.
Couldn't find one that he could catch, right?
Caught it.
A rooster, not a chicken.
And brought it back.
And when he brought it back, the old man just took it and started petting it.
And speaking in that, it wasn't Bisa language.
So it was something older than Bisa, maybe ancient Bisa, the older African language, right?
And so I was speaking in that until the thing just laid over, slept away, and then died.
That was it.
He spoke it.
Yeah.
Wow.
Yeah.
That was hard to witness.
That was hard.
That's like, I can't explain it.
There was, there's no tricks around it.
I was looking at that by that time after meeting all the ones from all over the world.
Yeah.
I mean, the weird thing is there's, there's this very serious conflict in your story.
Yeah.
That isn't on the surface of the story.
And it's the conflict between rationality and mystery.
Yeah.
Right?
Yeah.
You see, for example, Malidoma, he's hired twins.
This is a problem.
You see things that cause you to have or continue the concern, right?
Is this a trick or not?
Yeah.
What's real?
What can we count on?
The spinning of the static on the televisions, for example, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Something real.
Yeah.
Right?
But also there's these two aspects in you, right?
One of them is in love with mystery and the other one is grounded in rationality and these
two things are having a dialogue about your life, right?
Yeah.
And also with the illness and the death and initiation and all of these things.
There's this, there's this sort of heartbeat going on throughout your story.
Yeah.
So he talks the chicken to death.
Yeah.
And that was just to give a sign of whether he was allowed to give me the stuff.
Wow.
Yeah.
And permission.
Yeah.
It was really amazing.
It was like three bells tied up with different things and had three threads on it.
And it's when something, they were like dolls, bells, but like dolls all tied together,
three of them.
And it was a black, white and red thread.
And depending on what my situation was, I would use whatever thread.
But I wanted the police to not even see me.
There was a way to wrap the thread around and you spit on it and you say certain words.
I had the words all written down.
You say those words and they'll look in the car and not see you.
I mean, that was the idea of it, right?
Never got that.
One of the powers is that disability.
Yeah.
And what are the other powers?
I can't remember it clearly because.
One is to get a wish, is it not?
Not sure.
I'm not sure.
Yeah.
I was mostly worried about the invisibility.
Yeah.
So I don't remember black and red, but usually black has to do with forgiveness.
Like, it ain't my fault kind of thing.
I'm not responsible.
So the black color usually has to do, and red has to do with starting something or getting
into something, beginning something.
That's in general, but I'm not sure exactly what those ones.
And the yellow?
Oh, no.
There's only black, white, and red.
Black, white, and red.
See the white?
Yeah.
So the white is the invisibility.
And what is the black?
The black is like forgiveness.
Oh, yes.
Let's see.
I can use that in quotes for forgiveness.
Yes, of course.
So he gave you an object of power.
Yeah.
But he recognized that it was actually powerful.
Yeah.
It was the real thing.
And this is one of those guys that, you know, the Lebanese, they're really working hard
on taking over Africa, and the Chinese are.
But these people show up in limousines to come to his house.
That little mud house out in the middle of nowhere.
But you called it a castle.
Oh, no, no.
That's a different guy.
Yeah, that's the diesel man.
Where does this guy live?
So the one I'm talking about, he's, I think, was sanghu.
The place like this, a small little mud village.
If you're in a plane, you won't see it.
It'll match the dirt in the desert.
That's better that way.
Right?
You won't see it in the show really up close.
Yeah.
Now, intimacy invisible.
Yeah.
But those lands were beautifully sweet.
It's a weird kind of desert.
It's dry and it's moist at the same time.
And they have four growing seasons.
Four.
Four growing seasons.
One wonders what their moon calendars are like.
One being me, right?
Makes me wonder what their moon calendars are like.
Do they attend the moon in closely?
Never saw that.
Yeah.
And the people I was around, they didn't do any stellar stuff that I know of.
Really?
Yeah.
That started to happen unless you got into Mali, closer to Mali.
But not where I was.
Nothing with the sky.
That I know of.
Yeah.
So how did you end up leaving the land?
Oh, sick.
You know, I left.
As soon as we got back here, my wife acted up and disappeared and took all the money out of my account.
And I spent about a year looking for her.
I put posters of her and my son at the time, four months old.
All over Berkeley and all over Oakland until somebody knew who it was and reported it.
And took her to court.
It took us seven years of fighting in court.
And I lost everything, including that land.
Wow.
Including all my property and clothes and everything.
Because we only came here to sign some documents for her visa.
And we were supposed to go back.
You know, it just never happened, you know.
So I lost literally everything.
And you're here then, but you go back to Africa again, yes?
You see, after that time, that was my last time.
When he was already born, that was my last time.
I see.
Okay.
And where did you get this?
I got this in Burkina Faso.
That was with a man named Kungule.
He was a dagger.
And through Didier, Monodoma's brother that we went through the crocodile river with and stuff.
We did our own ceremonies.
And that's where I got this one from.
And I got three on one side, four on the other, and then I have them across my chest.
And I don't know if you can see them, but they're on my wrist too.
Yeah, I see a little bit.
Three, one, two, three.
It's supposed to be four on one side, but I don't kilo it very well.
Yes, as you were saying.
The skin of the African people is different.
And it holds markings much more.
Yeah, they build up like callus, thick skin.
There was a chief named Tokombu.
It was actually in Melanesia.
But his skin was so black, it's so thick that they couldn't put any needles to it.
They were trying to test them for, I don't know, syphilis or something like that.
But they were trying to test it, but all the needles broke.
They couldn't even penetrate the skin.
Wow.
And I understand that after seeing some of those people there.
The little boys they used to hunt with, we would go running chasing after animals.
And I'd have boots on and all kinds of stuff ready to hunt.
