Hi everybody. We're here for part 4 of a continuing interview with my friend Mark, Kevin, Charles, and Davis.
And we've covered much of his history. Now he has land in Africa on which he's living.
Unfortunately, the land is inhabited by demons, and we're going to take off from there.
So, last we heard you were out in your private area using the bathroom and there was a black mamba there.
Tell us some more stories about the land.
There are some.
Yeah, there are. So the land, because we closer got to the river, the more lush the land was, the more vegetation, different types of plants.
It was good for growing like corn and things like that.
The problem is there's a kind of snake there that is really long. I don't know how long.
When they talked about meters, I never knew how to compute that.
Sure.
Or millimetres or centimetres or whatever.
My guess is that when they were described that their hands were way out, so it was a pretty good sized snake.
But it was apparently big enough that they could stand up over the corn stalk and look for prey.
Wow.
It had to have that length, which is at least four or five feet, and then it had to have the length for a counter-level.
And then they would spring down and then spring over across the corn stalks to attack.
Wow.
A poisonous snake.
A poisonous snake.
Wow.
Did they have a name for it that you can remember at all?
I can't remember.
Sorry.
I have it written down somewhere.
I was always kind of always looking for it, but you know, you're looking through corn stalks.
Yeah, good luck.
Another stick that stared at you.
Really difficult, right?
Yeah, that land was really special.
But that wasn't our main field.
Our main field was further down her father's land.
My ex, her father's property, which was maybe four or five miles down the road.
And so we'd go on horseback.
Every morning we'd get up, go on horseback, go out there to farm.
And we'd be out there farming.
And everything's a competition.
A bit kind of, right?
So everything comes with a song.
You have to sing.
You have to compete.
So when the men are digging, right, you're digging these trenches to plant, you have a song to go with it and you keep going until the job is done.
The last person who's still standing, still out there doing it, people start throwing their daughters at them.
You can take care of your daughter.
It's a traditional thing.
And so I won once when I was with Malidoha.
But I wanted to win this one, but I was a lot skinnier and frail from being sick.
I tried.
I really tried.
My wife didn't mind.
She didn't mind?
No.
No, I mean, at least as far as winning the competition, she knew I couldn't afford to take him back to California.
But I wanted to win anyways, right?
There was a woman there like maybe 102 years old.
I think I died at noontime.
Passed out.
And a 102-year-old woman made it till dinner time.
Until the sun was going down.
She was out there working still.
She won.
But they don't throw the boy children.
No, not at the grandpa.
No, not.
Yeah, it was like that.
And one time I got mad at my wife and decided to take the horse and go out there by myself.
So like three o'clock in the morning.
This horse was amazingly, amazingly sensitive.
Amazingly sensitive.
I've never seen an animal like this.
Every time he would stop and like refuse to ride and make me jump off the horse and have to walk with him,
it's because someone died at that spot.
And I was always with people all the time.
And the only reason why I knew where these spots were is because he did it before, you know?
And they would explain, oh, so-and-so died here.
There was a car crash here and whatever, you know?
So at three o'clock, three thirty in the morning, I would hit these spots and then I'd have to get off the horse
and walk him over the spot and then get back on and keep going.
And one time there was a man on a bicycle.
He was riding toward us, three thirty in the morning.
I think it was that.
I did this a few times.
So I get mixed up at which time.
But I always think of it as the same time, right?
This guy on a bicycle come in and he moved like a stick and I looked at him.
He moved like a stick, like he was made out of twigs.
And I looked at him and he had no lips.
He just had like the open mouth with the teeth out, you know?
No lips.
And it freaked me out because it was still like the sun wasn't even up yet, you know what I mean?
I didn't know what to think of that.
So I went to the farm and came back and I explained it to my wife.
She said, oh, those are the trees.
The trees wake up and they walk around at night and they do things at night, you know?
I don't know what to make of that.
That's the hard part about Africa is you get those kind of responses.
What do you do with that, you know?
But it seemed like it.
It seemed like a tree, you know?
And I took my, you know, this same time or similar, I took my horse past that area where we saw that man, where we saw the dead people,
got to the lake near our farm, rode my horse right into the water.
I wanted to die.
So it's like, okay, let's see what happens.
Let's go straight.
Keep going forward, right?
Went right straight into the water.
I said, keep going, keep going.
He started swimming and took me across swimming with me on him across the lake.
It was spectacular.
We got across the other side of the lake, at least lay down and watch the sun come up.
And it was the most heavenly, godly experience in my life.
Yeah, that early in the morning with the horse, sunrise, jungle, pure jungle.
The sounds of the jungle are amazing.
Amazingly syncopated.
Amazingly syncopated, but just, there's nothing I can compare it to.
The living beings hitchhike on rhythm.
They sure do.
This is why when the humans are digging, they sing.
Yeah.
They're hitchhiking on the rhythm.
And when the rhythm is disturbed, then the humans have great difficulty.
And we live in a time when the rhythm is disturbed.
When we did those ceremonies in Dano, the part that was really strange is they would
start this rhythm, right?
Tata, tata, tata, tata, tata, tata.
And they'd keep that going for a month.
It would be nonstop.
Somebody has to come and replace the person and that guy keeps it going, right?
And what was weird is they would just start reciting like the names of their ancestors
and their predecessors, right?
One after another.
And it took a long time.
It took hours to go.
This first names, one after another, right?
As they're doing it, you could see like the cicada.
They would start following the rhythm, you know?
And then everything else started following the rhythm.
So it started feeling like the jungle was pulsating with the music.
Ah, yes, yes.
This is living power too.
This is the almost tactile, right?
It's audio, but you feel it, right?
It's visceral.
This is the word I want.
Very visceral.
You feel the boom, boom, boom.
And even when I was with Harnard, he was playing a drum, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom,
boom, boom.
And there's a different rhythm for coming back.
Yes, synchronization.
So how did your time on that land come to a conclusion?
I mean, I don't want to skip past stories.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
We got the gist of it.
It ended because of my illness with malaria.
This time I had one of the worst strains.
You got malaria again?
Yeah.
My goodness.
And dysentery.
I had to go to see this shaman, but he was Muslim.
Out in the middle of near, almost to Niger, Niger, Niger, right?
I had to go way out in the desert.
It was hours and hours and hours of driving.
I don't even know how long it was.
South dead people on the road on the way there.
It was really strange, you know, buzzards, you know?
But we got there and he had, I don't know how many wives.
He had a castle out in the middle of nowhere, just white sand around him.
He had like this castle and it was several wives.
I just don't know how many, right?
I was with my brother in law and he had dysentery too.
So we both were getting fixed, right?
And the guy, you know, he listened to us and we told the story.
He had us go into his special room and he gave us this pillow to shove up our problem area, right?
It was diesel fuel.
It was diesel fuel mixed with, I don't know, what else?
I felt like it was like a burning firecracker.
It was horrible.
Him and I both, and this guy's a tough man, my brother in law.
He gold digs, so he's, you know, he spends his summers out there in the roughest environment digging for gold.
You know, 30 people go out to dig, maybe 20 of them come back alive.
And he's been doing it every year, you know?
He's really tough, but he was screaming, I was screaming.
It was really rough, yeah.
It was a different kind of shamanism.
This guy was something else.
He was really something, but he was very wealthy because he was really good at what he did.
Did he fix the problem?
Yeah, he did, cleared us up.
Yeah.
So a little bit shortly after that, we went to see another shaman because my hunt was only for shamans.
You know, I got a chance to visit Jesuit priests and different things.
There was one Jesuit priest who took all the spirits out of a lake, put them in jars and sent them to the Vatican.
And I never got to actually meet them, but I got a chance to see where it happened and where the place was.
You know, but a lot of weird things like that.
But this one shaman we went to go see crossed over several rivers.
I don't know how far away.
I go by rivers because the desert, the rivers are really well marked.
The obvious demarcation.
