and also authorization schemas. These can include biases, myths, truisms, tropes, colloquialisms,
and so on. And many of those things are at least as primitive as the kind of confusion we imagine
when we use the word superstition. We've just exchanged metaphysical superstitions for conceptual
and linguistic superstitions in the same way that we've exchanged something like the worship of gods
for the worship of nations or sports teams or influencers or actors and actresses or artists
Um, there's a lot of this kind of, uh, underhanded exchange, right, kind of counterfeiting.
We think we got rid of superstitions, no, we hid them in representations and myths and theories.
Just as the insight of Darwin's evolutionary theories were hidden in the effulgence of arguments
about the proper naturalness of the strongest competitors winning at all costs.
Um, even our science is not immune to being captured and co-opted by the strange factory
of disembodied thinking, quote unquote, priorities, activities, imperatives,
and these are imperatives like war.
In the modern milieu, there's nearly no possible justification for war.
But many of our institutions are like this, war stands out as one of the primary
unnecessary tragedies resulting at least in part from our incredible confusion.
That happens once we begin to form up to fight or argue.
There are, of course, exceptions.
But we are fighting wars, our nations, our institutions, are fighting wars of their own
invention, wars that are invented just to keep the institutions hungry, entrenched, powerful, and dominant.
So in a way, our own individual minds are a bit like those of our societies.
They're haunted by ghosts of ideas and theories and language and so on.
And most of that stuff is of such poor quality that if you could actually see what's directly
available, given the assets and nature of our humanity, you'd never touch that other stuff.
We're only very rarely, and when it was really important, we'd use it more like a very dangerous
tool that we're extremely cautious of rather than like a courtroom of authorization
and ignorance masquerading as expertise.
And I am subject to all these things I speak of.
My own mind is thus, and I struggle, believe me, with the issues I orbit in my talks
in a really deep way that's quite confusing.
I mean, one would think, I would think, that if I were aware of these matters,
that would help me to resolve them.
But it's much more complex than that.
What we've inherited is extremely sophisticated and becomes really deeply embedded
in our experience of being human.
Excuse me.
And there are so many factors involved, not the least of which is our incredible sensitivity
to context.
In a way, we're drafting on the accomplishments, the historical developmental accomplishments
of our species in our capacity for representational cognition.
Now, our bodies are doing the same thing genetically, but that process is trustworthy
all the way down to its roots.
In fact, it really isn't, it's sort of incapable of telling a fiction, whereas
our cognitive aspect is almost the opposite of that.
It only tells fictions.
Those fictions are carefully produced to hide some things, highlight others,
emphasize others, authorize some, deauthorize others.
And most of what our cognitive aspect is concerned about is control.
It wants an artifact, not a relationship.
A relationship is unpredictable.
A relationship has to be embodied.
It's deeper than language or ideas or models or theories.
But the ideas and models and qualities and theories, those are manipulable.
Those are like frames or tools.
And our thinking aspect loves that because it feels competent there and would argue that
none of that other embodiment stuff is even really necessary.
We've got everything we need right here in the framework, the idea, the opinion, the bias, the demand.
Now, I'm generalizing about these things and I'm generalizing in a way that's also fairly crude
in the sense that I'm speaking particularly about the aspects of our
representational heritage that are troubling and frightening and dangerous.
And they're not intrinsically thus.
They have these properties primarily because of the imperatives that underlie our relationship
with them and what we received, what was transmitted to us by our cultures and moment
to moment in the contexts in which we live, what is presented as good or true or appropriate
what is celebrated and what is denigrated.
When the sun goes away, it's dark here, but it's light somewhere else.
And perhaps this is too simple an idea to make universal.
But if we think about qualities like hot or cold, black or white,
immediately it becomes apparent that they're dependent
on many things that aren't usually included in our thinking about them.
Who is looking? Why they're looking? Where they're looking? When they're looking?
What is the scope of their view? What is their angle of perspective on the phenomenon?
And by angle of perspective, I mean what are their concerns, presuppositions?
What have they dismissed to acquire this angle of perspective? What have they included?
And of course we can't include all the things we might need to because many of those things
we're completely unaware of and some of that awareness is hidden below the verbal conceptual
levels in our bodies and perhaps in our souls.
Those faculties tend to be timid. They're aware of the strata that lies on top of them,
of its dominant forceful nature, of its capacity to dismiss, denigrate, accuse,
criticize, and they're not very interested in war. This is another problem.
The general character of the strata we inherit as human beings
is extremely interested in conflict because it's interested in control and domination.
And some people have associated this with patriarchy and I don't intend to dismiss that argument,
but I think there's a much deeper context than mere patriarchy. However, to whatever degree that
may be a useful way of thinking about some of the problems in our social system. Now there's
something much deeper and it's hungry and it's angry and it feels vulnerable but it expresses that
as domination.
I suppose one of the other things I was thinking about was the quality of being alive.
We have in our categories, the categories of being, place, thing, time, so on,
we have the idea of an organism.
I think we're very confused about what that actually refers to,
but we've made some modest weird progress on the representational side
and that's not the best side to know what an organism is from, by the way.
It's like trying to know about your girlfriend's lips with a hammer,
or not a good idea, or your boyfriend's lips or anyone's lips.
This is the kind of problem we face. The hammer produces all kinds of seemingly shiny
derivations, models, analyses, criticisms, but it's a hammer. It's not alive. It has no skin in the game.
Most of the critics and authorities in our lives and cultures are very similar. They have no skin in
the game. They're not at risk. They don't have a body to be at risk. They're a weird kind of simulated
life that happens in animals like us. I wouldn't call them organisms, but they behave in populations
in a way not too dissimilar from how we might imagine some organisms behaving.
Not necessarily in nature, but perhaps in something more like a laboratory
where the context has been severely denuded of its natural complexity and diversity.
The strategy we inherit is like the result of this experiment having gone on for millions or perhaps
billions of human lifetimes. We have this weird problem where we acquire tools that pretend to
be minds that they're not mind-like. They are tool-like. Those tools, as we embody and express them,
replace the living underpinnings, the vast depths of consciousness, awareness, and embodied existence
with something not entirely dissimilar to paved trails or roads or freeways.
What travels on those freeways is language, models, analyses, criticisms,
celebration, or counterfeits of some of these things.
As if there were a network that connects all human minds at all times, and there are
entities that dominate that network. Now, are they alive? Well, the whole thing's a model,
and even our ideas about organisms and such is a model.
But what occurred to me is that there are two categories of things we don't really have
classes for at all. We have classes like object or being, right? Object or organism.
Trash can is an object, even though it's probably swarming with organisms.
In fact, it might be hard to find something lying around that wasn't infected with lots of organisms.
And there's a question about once something that isn't living is a swarm with organisms,
is that thing then itself alive? And this question's not trivial because it applies to our planet,
right? We don't think of our planet as an organism usually, but since it's swarming with them,
maybe that makes it alive.
But my real concern or interest here is a little bit weirder. What if there are things
that are more than nearly alive? What if there are beings that aren't simply embodied,
even though they may participate with embodied beings? Well, we don't have a category for that
except in religion or metaphysics. There's no common category of more than alive.
And in case you think it's not relevant, for most of human history, fire was about as hot as
things ever got. We might encounter lava, that was hotter, but mostly fire was about as hot as
it gets. We never imagined the temperatures common on the sun, right? So there's something more than
mere heat and fusion, atomic fusion, and the example of whatever's happening at the event
horizon of a black hole. These demonstrate that the common qualities we presume to be
concrete are matters of scope, right? So what if the scope of an organism is different from what
we imagine? Suppose, for example, that the scope of my being is mostly not local to me, and that
what is local to me is a peculiar concentration of the qualities inherent in that vast,
constellated, layered web of non-local being in relationship, activity, motivation, inspiration,
adoration, wonder. So we don't really have a class for more than a being.
And although we have the class of machine, which is a weird, less than a being
simulation of some very small number of the functions of a being, or what we can derive
as functions of a being, the distribution of force, the transformation of matter.
We don't really have a class
for these aren't beings, but they compete against them and act a bit. They simulate parts of them,
right? And our machines are like this, but it appears that in our cognitive dimension
there's another form of non-being that competes for dominance in the network
of transports between human minds, competes for reproduction rights, and it's disembodied,
it's not alive. And yet, like some kind of strange disease, it's contagious,
and it propagates wildly under various contexts and opportunities. We can see this in the sphere
of ideas and biases that are presently swarming around in our media.
And of course, we have the media itself, which is a really weird construct, fundamentally conflicted,
fascinated with dominance, attention gathering, reproduction, transmission,
not fascinated with excellence, not fascinated with success, fascinated with survival
at all costs, pretty much at any cost.
And so you can see a likeness between our own individual interiority,
where we struggle with and against the bizarre artifacts we've inherited,
particularly the myths, biases, wrong opinions, bad theories, bad interpretations of good theories,
bad applications of useful theories, and so on.
In my own mind, however, however far I may have been able to see into some of the roots of the
trouble is just as vulnerable. Well, maybe a little less. There are some aspects of language and
modernity that I've tried to establish, buffers, but mostly just absorb that stuff
and reflect it back, or pay it no attention, or attend something other than that passionately.
Those are some strategies that can be helpful. But even with all of that, I have the same
struggle with my own mind. It's like I'm dominated by a tool in my mental experience.
And the aspects of the tool that are most dominating
are vulnerable, their vulnerabilities, the felt sense of danger, threat, fear, anxiety,
concern about the future, concern about the past.
Strangely, much of the trouble that I experience, and I think many people share this, is predictive.
We make some very superficial analysis of a situation we're concerned about
and project that over the future. Usually our initial analyses are both, they have aspects of,
you know, more or less correct concern, but they also have aspects of pretending that the unknown
is known, and the future is an extremely unknown kind of thing, much more tenuous than we imagine
from our experience of waking up every day and still being alive, mostly unknown.
And, you know, there's an aspect of our cognition that's really good
at detecting and responding to threats, mostly at a relatively
simple level, but sometimes in a sophisticated way as well.
Of course, when we feed some aspect of our awareness, like what I'll refer to as the threat
sentinel, just like an institution, it wants more scope, more authority, more dominance.
And this inclination can be taken advantage of in all kinds of different ways by media and our institutions.
So, I think there are beings that are more than merely alive, and I think we may participate
with them in some way that's difficult to frame in language at the moment, but there are also
entities that aren't alive, or at least it can be useful to model these processes in these ways,
because they have some properties we associate with organisms.
They reproduce, they acquire terrain, they spread, there are terrain predators in human cognition.
Entity-like constructs that compete for dominance both of the transports between human minds
and of the relationships those human minds engage in, and of course the minds themselves.
The goal is to collapse the structural diversity and the precedence of the body and the unconscious
and the dreaming mind, to collapse all that into manipulable artifacts, tokens, exchangeable little
blips of information or resources, strange word there, for if those were really our resources,
we'd probably have a very different emotional relationship with them.
A relationship more appropriate to
beings capable of looking beyond and before.
The tokens and artifacts we largely exchange in lieu of that awareness.
So if what disappears somewhere appears somewhere else,
I wonder where the potential for
incredible intelligence and intimacy and wonder and play, where they disappear to
as they are overcome by the stifling structured strata layers
of the representational traditions we inherit and reenact and find very confusing in our day-to-day lives as human beings.
Some of those potentials
remain in the body, some of them extend into our relationships for the world, the sky.
They may have extent we've never properly imagined because most of our models are young
and relatively crude.
A bee just took brief shelter under my umbrella.
I think we carry within us, so to speak, or maybe it's not that we carry within us anything,
rather we are comprised moment to moment.
