Hello everybody. Thank you for joining me today. It's pretty cold outside and it's rainy,
so I have my my mic inside my hoodie, which is certain to make a little bit of noise.
I apologize in advance. Obviously, I can't detect it while I'm making the recording
and it's not a whole bunch I can do about it after the recording, but hopefully it won't
be too bad. It'll be uncommon. It's actually a beautiful day, even though it's cold and rainy.
Of course, what's beautiful or what has any quality at all depends kind of on how we're
in relation with it and the purposes, some of which will always be unconscious, but others
of which will be conscious or intentionally held purposes. And qualities depend for their
emergence into awareness. First on, I think, relation, but for thinking animals like us or
animals capable of thought, purpose, history, narrative, what we're thinking, the stories
we've been told and tell ourselves. These all have a profoundly determinative effect on the
qualities that we experience and think about. Now, of course, this is a complex situation and it's
one of gradients or degrees in that, obviously, no matter what we're thinking, there's a degree
where the quality we might derive is fairly concrete if I put my hand in water, for example,
or if I touch something very hot. And yet, the quality of hotness is more or less a cognitive
quality because if I were to touch something very hot, what I would experience first would just be
pain. And even pain, it turns out, though again, it's a matter of degree, is not a quality or
experience that can exist without someone experiencing what the word points toward. But
what the word points toward is never one thing. And this is one of the peculiar, actually bizarre
traps that we fall into with language. Pain will always refer to a vast constellation of things,
many of them are unknown, some might be unknowable, and any actual pain will be uniquely experienced.
And the experiencer themselves may or may not say that something is painful. They may or may not
choose that particular way of referencing, referring to the experience that they're having.
And of course, all things are relative. If one is in a lot of pain, and suddenly one is in a lot
less pain, that would be a great relief. Similarly, hot is relative to the context. If the context is
a million degrees, then 1000 degrees, which would normatively for us seem to be extremely hot,
is really mild, maybe even cool. So these qualities and the language that we use to refer to them
are very deceptive if we look more deeply into the experience of living beings. And the way that we
think of and apply qualities is so primitive for most of us, most of the time, that we're almost
always wrong. In the sense of if we took a broad and intelligent sampling of a phenomenon, and we
looked at it from many different perspectives rather than just one, we would see that the one
commonly on offer is at best confused, and often wrong because it presumes singleness or absoluteness.
Many of our most foundational concepts and ideas are like this. They present as a one pointed, one
dimensional, concrete thing. And there is no instance of that existing anywhere in reality. It's an idea.
It's a concept. In other words, it's a cognitive perspective. And that can have emotional aspects
and embodied aspects. But we are a very unique animal because whether or not other animals are
representationally sentient, and it appears that some of them express capabilities that imply they
are, they're not in the same way we are. I'm sure there'd be some crossover. But for us, a universe
of verbal and conceptual fictions is in direct competition with our felt senses, our essence,
our organs, our body, our soma, and perhaps our souls. But this is the direction I'm pointing when
I use the word essence. And so we live in this really strangely stratified conflict where on the
upper level, so to speak, at least while we're awake, we have this historically developed and
conserved array of biases, suppositions, beliefs, language, concepts, models, theories, proofs,
traditions. A good example would be mankind is here to conquer nature. We have to conquer things.
Or we are the most advanced animal on the planet. Well, you could find a domain in which that's true,
but you could find a thousand where it isn't. Or is even the opposite of the truth.
So we have myths, right? And many of them have to do with what's natural or normal.
But most of these myths and traditions and ideas and concepts, they're the produce
of the aspect of our being that is more or less disembodied and might actually prefer to be entirely
disembodied. Hence our technological fascination with what we refer to, I think very confusedly,
as artificial intelligence, completely disembodied, cognitive-like processes.
And then we think, oh, well, let's bring them back into, let's just keep rolling it over, right?
We'll bring the the AIs into the body so that now they're partly embodied, disembodied processes.
And that's something like what's happened with our cognition and our relationships
with language and knowledge over time.
So we're a really complex, strange animal. We've developed a very powerful
imaginal array of prostheses, tools, devices. And they are astonishing in their capacity to endow us
with the ability to manipulate force, context, the environment,
mass, space, light, electromagnetic forces. And we've certainly accomplished seemingly
astonishing but incredibly dangerous things with the results of having developed this way.
But underneath the vast stratifications of our inherited cognitive and technological
histories and traditions and myths, there's an ocean, or oceans within oceans,
of unimaginably ancient intelligence and sophistication.
The origins of the unimaginable complexity of our bodies, even if measured only over a millionth
of a second. I would argue that there's more intelligence in that activity over a millionth
of a second in our bodies than there is in the entire cognitive and representational
history of our species, including all of our computation.
Underneath the strata, the organism we are, the human beings we are, the essence of our being,
whatever that may be or not be, these things are suffering the impositions
of formal representational cognition on our minds and world.
Now, of course, we don't have to live in this kind of conflict, we inherit it.
And the fact that we're very, we're capable of advanced representational cognition doesn't mean
that the shadows of those assets must dominate our lives or hearts or world or bodies.
Yet, for the moment, they mostly do. Our hearts and minds and bodies live
and are capable of expression primarily under the domination
of the stratified layers of inherited cognitive activity and myths and imperatives and so on.
And for, I think nearly all of us, that's a relatively suffocating situation.
It would be as if the tip of my pinky dominated my entire body,
and the tip of my pinky was really interested in getting rid of the rest of that stuff.
It's astonishing how modest, in comparison, the relatively tiny advancements of our
cognitive and representational nature are, in comparison to the staggering brilliance
that our bodies and minds and perhaps our souls are living expressions of moment to moment.
And it turns out that the way we're in relation with that strata,
the structured ideas and language and concepts is really badly broken. And it's broken in such a way
that the assets that comprise those traditions and behaviors are actually themselves suffering.
They're suffering from loss of contact with their own origins.
They're suffering from the felt necessity to dominate and dismiss
our essence, our organismal nature, our animal nature, our human nature,
and even our social nature. So it's as if an angry and confused teenager
got a hold of all of the family assets and was willing to expend all of them
in a bid to dominate their future, maybe even expend its own life. It's not clear that
the strange game we're engaged in isn't self-terminating. It looks like it is.
The disembodied aspects that result in our technologies, war, our societies,
and that are embodied in them are not there to succeed. They're there to continue the process
of their development, survival, authorization, domination, and quote unquote success.
But that success doesn't mean to succeed at what they were forged for. It means to succeed
at growing and dominating more terrain, acquiring more power, assets, resources, attention, and so on.
So that means that our institutions, much like
goodly portions of our cognitive and representational inheritance,
are effectively malignant. And so it's no mystery why they don't work the way they're supposed to,
quote unquote, or the way we imagine they should be proceeding,
the way we imagine they should be capable of solving or responding to problems.
They actually only use the minimal amount of that capacity required for them to survive,
to reproduce, and to gain what you might think of as
a good position in the market of things the humans will sustain and support and buy into.
So it's a bit like we're being ridden by
a swarm of different kinds of demons. They arise pretending to heroism.
Once established, they primarily pursue the goals of domination, success, subterfuge,
hiding that fact. And you can see this in all of our institutions, our medical institutions,
our government scientific institutions, academia, social institutions.
They tend to work just barely good enough. Meanwhile, they're proliferating wildly and
absorbing vast quantities of commodities and resources and living beings, living places,
the origin, organs of life and intelligence in our world.
A troubling situation, less troubling if we're not aware of some of the foundations of it.
And I think they relate very deeply to the schism
that has arisen between our nature as representational cognitive animals
and our nature as animals, organisms, and beings in general.
When I began this talk today, I was thinking about a peculiar problem with categories
and qualities. I was thinking about the way that
when a quality such as this is warm transforms to this is cold, the heat is not gone.
Rather, it seems the domain of its expression has changed from
highly local as in a candle flame to vastly distributed and thus invisible.
Now, the heat from the candle flame does really strange things in the environment,
of course, depending on how the environment is, depending on the context. But even in a still room,
the heat from the candle, though no longer brightly generated by its flame once it is extinguished,
is all throughout the room. And if the candle is not completely consumed,
then the heat is in the potential within the candle. Now, both of those, the distribution in the room
and the potential in the candle, are invisible to us. We might be able to calculate them using
what we've learned of physics and math. We might even be able to simulate what happens
with the heat in the room, the heat from the candle when we extinguish it.
But we can't know the actual state of these phenomenon because its complexity
is far greater than any capacity we have to analyze it. And it's vastly more
significant than anything that can easily be framed in language. In other words,
language and theory cannot fully encompass it. Language and theory are incomplete.
If we shrink the context, language and theory begin to look more complete as we narrow the context.
And this is part of how scientific research proceeds. We try to exclude as much of everything
as we can get away with. And then we can more concretely distinguish
elements we wish to observe, analyze, transform, so on.
But almost everywhere, we first have to get rid of most of what's going on,
you know. And often, especially in biology, this involves killing what we're trying to observe.
And you can see here the hallmark of the problem. In the desire to measure, analyze, quantify,
we're taking away something, some kind of heat is being, or energy is being transformed into another form.
And in this case, it's a kind of a skeletal thing. It's the dead remains of what we originally
intended to analyze in order to acquire mechanical understanding of properties familiar to us.
Properties we've set out to distinguish, highlight, prioritize, and measure.
So I was thinking about how
when someone or something disappears from somewhere,
they don't actually go into nothing. They appear somewhere else, or transformations of their
previous state appear somewhere else. And I was just, I was thinking in terms of,
you know, we can look at this in a very simple way. Think about the sun.
The sun's blatantly obvious to all of us, even those who don't have eyes, can feel their heat.
It's heat. And when the sun, quote unquote, goes away in the evening,
it necessarily appears, you know, light rises somewhere else. And instead of it being like
an on-off switch, it's a continuum, right? First, there's a very small degree of light.
Dawn begins, the first glimmers of the rising of the sun.
And strangely, with this particular example, it's both a gradient and a continuum.
The sun disappearing here happens over a relatively slow amount of time,
though it can be very surprising how quickly it grows dark
once the sun actually gets near the horizon or sets.
So the disappearance of the light from my locality
is the appearance of the light in another locality. And this is the thing I'm trying
to explore about qualities and transformations.
Because our thinking, the way we're trained to think, the way we are habitually taught to
relate with language and concepts like qualities,
tends to be very crude. It tends to be bipolar, single-pointed, mono-dimensional.
That is a tree, right? That is cold. That is hot. That is bright. That is dark.
That is beautiful. That is ugly.
Yet none of these qualities are really intrinsic to any phenomenon that I understand.
Because for them to emerge, to comment or awareness,
there must be a mind. And the mind has to be somehow engaged with phenomenon.
Yes, the sheet of paper looks white, but is that true?
Without my mind, the sheet of paper has no look. In fact, there is no sheet of paper.
So it's just important to understand that qualities arise as a result of relation
with embodied animals, living places, senses, beings.
And also with our peculiar cognitive nature and its priorities.
And one of the things I was pointing out earlier is that it's as if part of our being
broke away from the rest. And like a disembodied satellite wants to orbit it,
constantly commenting, analyzing, criticizing,
investing and divesting, fighting and welcoming.
According to its peculiar damage, according to the strange damage,
it seems to have acquired when it first began to break away,
when it first began to conflict directly with our nature as beings, animals and humans.
One way of thinking about it is that there was a kind of an accident,
and I have a few narratives and stories about that that I find fascinating.
But we all experienced a recapitulation of this process when we were little,
when we were being enlanguaged and enculturated, when we began to become concerned about being able
to speak and write and use numbers to analyze, to argue, to form opinions and beliefs.
And when I speak of those things, I speak primarily of the representational shadows
of those things. And those shadows are far more thin and vulnerable than they appear.
Most of our simplistic theories and ideas about nature, our minds, our emotional selves,
our bodies, are for all their seeming advancement if we compare them to certain
historical situations and contexts. They're incredibly crude and certainly mostly
are less than one percent true-ish. We'll settle for a very low-grade truth most of the time
when we're depending on the cognitive and linguistic prostheses that we've developed
and have become almost invisible to us. One moment.
We're so used to depending on them and there's a very complex network of authorization
schemas that underlie how we use language, how we think about identity and quality and being.
And some of these things are so sophisticated that it's very difficult to model them or speak
intelligently about them in ordinary language. But our ideas and beliefs, our analyses and
measurements depend on both purposive schemas, what our intentions are, why we're interested,
