We are, as if an aspect of us is breathing
in the place of our essence,
in the place of our bodies, in the place of our emotional selves.
These potentials and assets are flowing and alive, deep underground,
away from the, protected from the structured fictions and aggressive ideas and language
that we're commonly immersed in.
But they emerge when it's safe.
They emerge when invited and nurtured, nourished and rewarded.
And so even if they may seem to our waking mind to be gone or have died or have become so inhibited
as to barely be sensible to us, deep within ourselves, they're thriving, hoping for
an opportunity to emerge into embodiment and expression and rejuvenation
of our humanity, perhaps of our world.
If we can learn to understand these matters more clearly together, it will certainly be useful
even in our own lives and relationships. It's not clear whether we have the capacity to change
the world or if that would be a good idea given our present relatively impoverished ideas of what
we'd like. Though there are obvious changes that are absolutely crucial for our species to have
made 50 years ago, 20 years ago, 10 years ago. We're very late to the game.
One of the strange myths is that humans can outrun time, that we can outrun death,
that we can conquer nature, conquer death, conquer disease. But it's again very similar to the idea
of my hand trying to conquer me. My hand can't conquer its origin and if it did, it would die.
And this is the same problem with these
bizarre ideas that again have become mind-like entities in our modern human experience.
I think there are different species of mind-like entities that we're trained to compose and
sustain together. And thankfully, this implies that we can develop much more beneficial versions
of this kind of phenomenon, much more trustworthy versions, more humane versions, more intelligent
versions, more embodied versions. And of course, in little melting pots within our culture,
some cohorts play at these things constantly.
To be alive is an astonishing thing, to continue to live more so.
But to remember, for me, the dreams and aspirations, the suffering and struggle
of all the beings who have lived on earth, to remember that and to have a concern
about fulfilling some of those dreams, to have a concern about transforming
how our species develops and how we relate with the relatively science-fictiony
aspects of our representational cognition. These are goals that move my heart
and inspire me to continue to quest and seek passionately, hopefully, to understand
the history and our present situation and the potentials inherent in our
astonishing situation as human beings.
Thank you for joining me today. I look forward to continuing to learn and grow together very soon.
