offering me aid. It's offering me care. It doesn't have to know what I am. It
merely knows my intention or something of it. And it had to know that because at
first it avoided my finger a few times. And then after, you know, some encounters
with my finger, it climbed on. What a brave moment. But in that moment, we joined
together. Some of my body is now inside that bee. It's now inside that bee's
people. And there was a transfer between our people and the bumblebee people. It
happened there. And that's truly beautiful.
You know, in our life, we think about things we want to accomplish. Many of
those things are meaningless. But when there's a transfer of care between
beings and the old agreements, the original agreements between the
beings, which are still made and renewed in our modern situation, even though
they originated long ago, those agreements are honored and renewed. And
that's a real accomplishment. That's something I can deeply trust. It's
beyond categories. It's beyond evaluation. It's beyond accounting games. Now I am
with the bumblebee people. And they're with me. And we're together. And
perhaps part of why the bee was willing to take the risk of climbing on my
finger is because I've had many such transfers with the bee people and wasp
people and other peoples that are related to hymenoptera in the category
language. Funny word that hymenoptera. The female insects. The matriarchal
insect society. Except that matriarchal is probably the wrong word here.
And really, we should be cautious about forming fairy tale narratives. Though
that can also be useful. We just wouldn't want to be misled. The hymenopteran
societies, they are extremely severe in their ways, in some ways. And extremely
beautiful in others. They are both. If we are looking with an eye that evaluates
such things. If we are looking with a clear eye, there is no need for such
evaluations. We simply understand, ah yes, the bee people as they are. Right here
with me now. Not in my memory, not in my thought, in the moment. So for me, this
transformation of a fundamental holophore, right, that organisms are
peoples and lineages and relationships. It opened doorways in my mind that
otherwise might have remained closed even though I had an intuitive sense of
their truth and necessity. Right? Still, my human thinking would dominate that
sense most of the time. And even today, it still does again. I've fallen twice
into this trap, once in my birth and once in my adulthood. Where I reacquire the
overlay, or I acquire or reacquire the overlays, the conceptual, categorical,
linguistic overlays. There's probably a language, and if there isn't, there was,
that in the word for any being included either the explicit or the implied
component of meaning that tells you this is a people. Gum trees are a people.
The rosemary plant is a people. And of course, the rosemary plant is a person of
the people. It's a unique instance of a distributed organ in the living world.
So this is an example for me of the partial repair of a holophore where I
finally really understood in a way that though it could be buried again by
language and categories of counting and clinical thought, it could be re-lost.
But in my life, it was renewed. Now, little children understand all these things
because they've not acquired the amputations that come with formal
representational thinking. And so we can recover like the little children. They
are like, in a sense, they're like pollinators. They can transfer the pollen
of the original light back into those adults and other children and teenagers
and elderly people and so on who have lost it or who it's become very buried
and overwrought within. They carry the original light. And some of the adults
preserve some of that original light. But today, what I want to ask you to think
about is returning, recovering together some of the dimensionality of the
fundamental roots of meaning in the landscape of identity as we think about
it. When I become very soft, it's entirely clear to me that I don't want to harm
another being at all in any way. But suppose that we have the world fundamentally
upside down or backwards, and I promise you this is the case with most of how we
think. Suppose that all of the living beings are inside me first, and their
appearance as external is a strange kind of illusion. Now it becomes intimately
clear that harming other beings is harming myself. And this isn't explicit, right?
It's a guiding principle that has play in it in the sense that all beings eat
food. Now you can look at the different peoples and you will notice some of them
appear fundamentally benevolent. Not only do they not harm other beings, they
aid them always. And even in harming other beings, their lineages are aided,
right? In the relationship between a prey being and a predator being. But it's
pretty hard to see how trees harm things. They give life and food and shelter to
myriads of beings. And we could get clinical scientifically and say, well,
they produce chemistries that kill moth larvae and so on and so forth. Sure, they
have something resembling an immune system, right? A self and other.
But there are many beings that really compared, for example, to human beings do
very little harm, if any. I mean, the bees will fight to preserve their hives. And
there's competition and behavior that appears cruel within the hives. The males
are not particularly, well, it's weird. First they're coddled, then they're
disposed of. They're coddled until mating day. They don't have to really do any
work. They're fed, they're cared for, they're nurtured. But then on mating day,
boom, ejected from the hive. No more togetherness. It's their last day on
earth. They won't last more than a day or two at most without the hive.
But I want to go back to this idea that the whole world is fundamentally inside
me, that all these beings, and not just the beings who are alive, all the beings
who have ever lived, and somehow, you might think even magically, all the beings
who ever will live, and not just those beings on earth, all the beings. They're
fundamentally inside me. This is a transformation of the holophore of
personhood. I'm a person. I'm separate. I am in the world. The world is a
container. Everything in the world is outside me. Can't be true. No way it's
true. Impossible for this to be true. Yet we think like this all the time. And we
don't recognize the transfers. When beings give their lives to become our
food. When we pick up microbes from the environment, you know, at least half,
probably half the cells in our bodies are not from our gene line. They're from the
world. And some of those microbes have been transferred lineage to lineage,
mother to child, mother to child, mother to child, and father to child, father to
child, father to child.
Now, I'm not trying to tell you that in truth, the entire world of beings is
inside you. What I'm trying to say is that perspective will serve you better
in general, by far, than the perspective that the beings are outside you. And that
you are separate from them, which certainly cannot be true. If you take
away all the beings, you die right now. All the beings come together. But for me,
learning that they were peoples meant that I could discover ways to relate
between my people and their people that were mutually beneficial and beautiful,
trustworthy, intimate, deeply profound, loving, caring, recognition. Mutual
awareness, mutual concern, mutual wonder, mutual love. And so this is an example of
the partial repair of a holophore. What are people? What are beings? It affects
everything, though. This is the unique thing about holophores. It affects what
the sun is, what the moon is, what food is, what seeing is, what my hand is, what
dreaming is. If you repair any of the holophores even slightly, all the other
holophores and all their derivatives inherit the correction. And this
represents something like an unordinary cognitive technology. As we repair our
holophores, we regain the capacity for something resembling actual intelligence.
And as they continue to be tokenized, flattened, denuded, our minds die. And in
the grasp of our minds, in the iron grip of representational cognition, our souls
suffocate. There's no relational oxygen in there. It's not inhabitable. That's space.
And the holophore is a derivative of the uniphore, or any holophore is a derivative of
the uniphore. And the uniphore is what we think everything is and is doing. And it
seems that most of us have a pretty crude, very tokenized idea about this, what
the everything is. And, you know, honestly, you don't want an idea. You don't
want a token. In the same way, if I love a woman romantically, I don't want an idea
of her or a photograph of her. I want to be with her. I want to be together with
her in our minds, in our hearts, sometimes in our bodies. I want to eat food with her,
sing with her, dance with her, create with her, learn with her, grow with her, be hurt with her,
be sick with her, perhaps die with her. None of that is knowledge, or if it is, it's the old kind.
So we should be very careful with these modern forms of knowledge. Most of them are toxic,
they're very domineering. They tend to overwhelm our capacity for insight and relation,
intelligence and discovery, creativity and humanity.
But there's a door in the prison. Many doors, in fact. And one of them is the recognition
that our holophores have undergone this process of becoming tokenized, by which I mean, like,
turned into coins, representations that are not, that are insufficient as vehicles
for our cognition and interiority.
Perhaps you may experiment with the holophore of organisms and see what you can recover,
and see if you agree with me someday, that each of the living beings are peoples and lineages,
and that we can learn how to relate with them in ways that make our fantasy and science fiction
look timid in comparison. For that is our actual nature, I believe. And that is the opportunity
and that is the opportunity that we have, one of the opportunities, the crucial one,
to learn how to be human again in a living world together.
Thank you for joining me. Bye-bye for now.
