senses health, awareness and understanding. In a sense, you can see that the human capacity
to invent technologies collapses potentials we've either lost contact with or are unaware of
into apparently powerful derivatives whose domain of power mostly goes against the possibilities
of life, intelligence, insight and transcendence. I would argue that our species and all of the
organisms on earth are innately transcendent. In fact, I would go further and say that
the, even the material universe is itself transcendent, rocks and oceans and so forth,
clouds and skies and things. Because I suspect strongly, and this is an opinion, a bias of mine,
that the nature of time space is transcendent and that everything that we see represents modes of
time space. Very few humans even have this word transcendent and I would argue that most of the
things we are concerned about in the study of the paranormal are actually the intrusion
of partial features of transcendence into common human experience, behavior, questing,
questioning, learning and mutual concern.
It is clear to me, very clear, that there are authentic psychics
and the fact that some of those people who will call themselves by this name
are mimics or magicians does not dispose of the topic. And if we are going to be concerned
about people who are crazy, and many of us have had some degree of a taste of madness in our lives,
I am one of those people. Even what we would think of as insanity or craziness,
often, almost always, contains important seeds of insight that have been denied by the broader
population and have been concentrated in the consciousness of a particular person or group.
This relates to the idea that minds form networks. Those networks are like environments
and effectively what tends to happen isn't necessarily that Einstein discovers relativity.
Rather, it is that Einstein concentrates certain features of the transcendent nature
of the network of human minds in his time and perhaps beyond his time, localizing that into
insights. You'll notice something peculiar about Einstein's famous formula. E equals mc squared.
He starts with the unity. He doesn't start with the parts. Normally, in math, as we are trained
to compose it, we place the parts first. Two plus three equals five.
Einstein reverses this in his famous equation and puts the unity first. That one move
is almost the fingerprint of transcendence right there. Whenever we can think from unity into
distinction, we will find insight. We who are trained to think in the opposite way,
distinction toward unity, will mostly fail if we were to compare what we would understand
as the progress of these two modes of thought. For example, if you were to count your hand,
you might start with plus seven, plus representing the uplink of the wrist first.
One for the hand, then on the outside, and turn it over. One for the unifying body or palm,
because if we don't count the most important things first, a, they won't count, and b, we will forget them.
Four for the working members, one for the thinking member, plus seven. The plus is counted first
because it remembers the uplink. And across that wrist, you have things like eyes,
a nose, a mouth, ears, other organs, limbs, and so forth.
But you also have the same principle. You are one being, actually it would be plus one,
or we would count the body in a similar fashion. Let me back up a little bit here.
Plus for the uplink that represents origin and transcendence, time, space, so forth.
One for your body. Four for your, what we'll call your working members or limbs. One,
let's see, I made a mistake here.
One, okay, so plus some number. I'm not sure what the number is yet. It depends on
our purposes in counting it, what that number is. But it would start with plus,
then one for the whole, then one for the unifying body or torso.
We might count four for the working members, your limbs, one for the thinking member. In that case,
it would be the same count as your hand, plus seven. You will see that there's a
formative synonymy between the structure of your hand and the structure of your body.
Some people will call this a fractal synonymy. They're not entirely wrong, but usually when
humans think of fractals, they're thinking mathematically. And there are many features
of the nature of fractals that are missing from that perspective, important features,
especially that plus symbol, the uplink. The direction toward unity from what appears to be
a distinct embodied organism.
So, I would argue that the paranormal
is really an attempt to intelligently reambiguate where it is not an attempt to deceive,
and that is certainly part of it. But the weird feature about the problem of being crazy
is this. There's nothing we could do, well there's very little we could do,
that would be more insane than the craziness of our purported nations, societies, technologies,
and so on. These things destroy the possibilities of transcendent intelligence, true relation,
insight, and replace it with artifacts.
I was making a joke a while ago. I have a meme where there's a photograph of a car
and overlaid over the photograph. There are reasonable descriptions of what the technology
actually is. And I think the first one is kills by going. And it's sort of a joke,
but it's a very hyperbolic take on the fact that many of the human technologies are omnicidal.
Effectively, they kill arbitrarily and they kill everything. It's as if we're literally stealing
the ability to skip time by devastating the future and history of the life paths in the biosphere.
There's nothing crazier than that. That's about as crazy as you get. And there's no seed of insight
in that kind of insanity, the way there often is in schizophrenia or psychosis.
So the people who want to say there's no such thing as telepathy, you're crazy, there's no UFOs,
you're nuts, there are no ghosts, there is no way to heal each other with touch, with love,
doesn't mean attempting that's going to work every time, either. It just means it's not nonsense.
And the things that we believe instead are certainly nonsense. Yes, there's some nonsense mixed in there,
that's true. But compared to what we do as a species on earth in our modern nations and societies,
that kind of nonsense is relatively harmless. I'm going to take a little break and we'll continue
shortly. In my intention to explore these matters together, I'm not, though it might sound that way,
merely lecturing from the book of my understanding and awareness. I'm actually struggling to remember
because our cultures and situations, our isolation, our languages, concepts and ideas,
the milieu in which we exist these days is sleep producing. It puts us to sleep,
it denies the existence of transcendence and rewards effectively our worship of representations.
And so, like wings never used, I'm practicing remembering, I'm practicing my capacity to formulate
intelligent language insight and concepts in an effort to awaken to whatever degree I may be able to.
Yes, I am reciting things that I have learned to see and understand, but I'm also extremely excited
just to be able to have some time in the water of life, awareness and insight.
It's funny, part of me recognizes now that my vocal music has been very
stilted in a particular way and I must be emulating something that I've been recently exposed to.
I often find that when I'm watching a film or a show in which I feel perhaps unconsciously
a deep affinity with one of the characters, for some time after I stop watching the show,
I am likely to emulate certain vocal patterns, vocal music and the character of whoever it was
that I found compelling. I'm a little bit embarrassed and chagrined to notice that I've been emulating
in my vocal music and patterning someone I've heard recently, often in a case like this one
particularly. This is a sign that my faculties are not really at my disposal. My natural music,
my natural enthusiasm, I'm using a prosthesis.
And I find that a little bit troubling, though I'm attempting to modulate that now,
back toward my own more natural way of speaking and exploring. We'll see what degree of success I
may achieve here. It is my sense that if we were able to remind each other of the nature,
something that resembles the nature of existence that's just slightly, a slight improvement
on our everyday models and ideas, we would experience ecstatic wonder ceaselessly
in our awareness, in our consciousness, in our nature as more than merely human beings.
We resemble fish developed in an artificial environment in which
their skin was kept moist and their gills were fed oxygen, but they never had the experience
of being in the water. And that water is the water of our true nature, our origin. And by true,
I don't mean factual, I mean authentic. And that water is transcendent. It is like water,
it shares many features with the substance we think of as water.
But it is not a thing. It is more like a family of beings. And whenever we are able to
achieve even a very slight degree of insight, it returns the dimensionality
to our waking world experience that is, I think, what we bring to our human incarnation
and are intimately familiar with in early childhood and sometimes beyond.
And it's infinitely refreshing to have even the slightest drop of what we might call the water
of being. I myself, though I remember much of what I am sharing here today from my direct experience
with a complex non-human intelligence, I myself am like the fish taken from the water.
It's very difficult to see in consciousness what I am or in awareness, I should say,
what I am capable of formulating in language and thought. And these are not the same
mode of experience.
Language and thought deal with tokens, representations, concepts and maps.
Awareness is something a bit more like direct intimate relation.
And so I struggle too with being asleep within my waking experience and seeing the familiar
continuous world, hey, walking on the cement, knowing the names of the things that I see,
being asleep in the familiarity of ignoring all that I can name and conceptually recognize.
The project of representational cognition is incredibly expensive if it were possible for us to
merely flip the switch for a moment and if not turn it off at least dim it down.
The universe that would appear intimately within and around us
would be naturally, ecstatically, infinitely brilliant, beautiful, authentic, rich, intelligent
transcendent.
It would be transcendental.
But I, too, struggle. I need help.
Some of us suppose, with some degree of reasonable truth, that certain substances
can turn the volume down on representational cognition and also turn the volume up on intimacy.
This is not untrue. However, I've always thought that it would be better for us to have
endogenous non-ordinary experience before and perhaps even during our use of substances.
Certainly, when I even just drink alcohol, for example, I warm up.
And the quality of my consciousness changes and I am capable of
unusual conceptual insight when I'm a little drunk, less so when I'm quite drunk,
similarly, if I were to smoke some cannabis,
radically alters my cognition very quickly and that alteration,
unless I do it very regularly, which I am disinclined to do, thankfully,
that alteration is quite troubling. First comes monumental self-consciousness bordering on paranoia
and then if I merely direct it toward curiosity, that tends to fall away
and I will experience cascades of insight, demonstrable insight,
not just crazy making, quote-unquote.
The psychedelic substances are particularly complex in their effects
and in some ways troubling to me because I am afraid of our capacity to replace
the faculties and abilities we naturally have with a sort of light switch that just kicks us
into an alternate reality, whether we are willing to go along or not once you eat the mushrooms,
take the LSD, smoke the DMT, drink the Hayahuasca.
In most cases, we will be forced into
non-ordinary experience and I just think it would be better if we had protocols and methods,
technologies of behavior in relation, if you will, ceremony comprises one of these,
where we could realize that not only do you not need the mushroom and so on, your endogenous
capacities for non-ordinary experience are different from that and broader and richer
and deeper. And this is not to cast aspersions on psychedelics, I just have the fear that
for example, I would like my child to have the adventure of playing an elven ranger with a
group of other children in a real-world fantasy adventure firsthand in his or her body,
in his or her experience before my child played, for example, a role-playing game,
particularly a video game. So there's sort of three levels, right? There's the real-world
experience, which I think is something we're missing out on and something that we should
bring back into our traditions and culture, the idea of an alternate reality game, but
not with the kind of cynical backdrop that many of these have.
Then there's sort of pen and paper role-playing. And the reason these things are so compelling
is that we're starving for roles. We're starving for meaningful roles. And we're born
hoping to experience something far richer than merely being an elf in the Lord of the Rings.
And yet our culture offers us nearly none of this. So then we have, you know, args,
pen and paper RPGs, and the complete collapse of actual adventuring identity video games.
Now, I'm not saying that psychedelics are to insight and the non-ordinary as video games are to
our desire for meaningful adventure together, but there is a relationship there. And it's a
relationship I think we should pay careful attention to, with and for each other, with and for our
children and ancestors. We come to the adventure of birth, our eyes shining with the transcendent
illumination of our origins, remembering the non-human intelligences, the myriad non-human
intelligences that we are likely intimate with and learning with prior, just prior to our conception.
And then what we find here is in miserating, an in miserating lack of memory, intelligence,
awareness, and communality, meaningful roles, meaningful adventures. And it's true that even
in this very bizarre context we find ourselves in, we can recover them together whenever we should
agree to do so. And I'm a thousand percent on the page of let's do that, please, any way we can
find, let's do that now. And perhaps in my videos, in my recordings, I am calling to like-minded others
in the hope that we can re-establish beautiful ways, intelligent ways, insightful ways, playful ways
of recovering the more-than-human aspect
of our potential and our desire while yet we live. It's funny how I was laughing a moment ago
because I think I may have realized who I'm emulating. And it's not someone that I've listened
to recently. I think I'm accidentally emulating Carl Sagan's vocal music and tempo. Of course,
some would say, oh, you're channeling Carl, huh? Interesting that we have this idea that we can
channel, quote unquote, that presumes there's a network, right? If there's anything like channeling,
that presumes not only is there a network, but we can localize features of that network
from afar, in time, place, being. And I strongly suspect that that's true,
although again, among those people who call themselves channels, we have a vast array of
behaviors, from the deeply trustworthy and authentic to the, this is a game I am playing,
to I've learned to mimic what I've seen in others. And sometimes mimicry isn't all bad,
but it tends to go badly for us because our representations mimic features of our origin
that we lose contact with by relating with those representations intimately, particularly our cars,
homes, and cell phones. The representation replaces uplinks, and you can see
in each of those things, how that is so. This concept of the uplink has become more
prominent in my thought and concern over the past couple of months, and particularly the past few
weeks. When we lost, for whatever reasons, when the sky doors closed, then some of us, some of our,
some of the people who were alive during those times, and they're never completely closed.
But I think, I'm not sure whether it was a transformation in our species,
developmentally or evolutionarily, a transformation in our bodies and consciousness,
or a transformation in the local situation with the sun and the solar family, or a transformation
in the waters of time-space through which the sun pulls the earth, or some other kind of strange
catastrophe that I have no idea about. I don't know too much about why the sky door is closed,
and sometimes it appears that representational cognition was the cause of that. But I'm also
inclined to suspect that it could be the symptom of it, the rise of formal representational cognition,
representations like commodities and cash particularly.
