Hello, everybody. Welcome. Today is Wednesday, September 13th, and I'm out for an afternoon
to talk and talk. I just want to take a moment to honor and appreciate all of you who listened
to my recordings, and especially those of you who support me to whatever degree you can
by liking my videos, sharing them, commenting, or sending me a little bit of money on Patreon.
I have very few patrons, and any of you who want to contribute even a dollar a month,
it makes a big difference. Currently, my Patreon produces around $65 a month. That has recently
changed, thanks to one subscriber in particular who made a very generous monthly donation,
but it's still pretty low, and I'm not here to make money. None of my content contains advertising.
I provide all of it free, and I'd like to keep it that way. It would be terribly ironic if my
YouTube videos played advertisements, but it would also get me a vastly larger share of attention,
since I don't think YouTube promotes videos that don't contain advertising.
So yes, any support that you'd like to give would be very welcome, and you can make a one-time
donation if you wish by going to the index page on organelle. I think it's organelle.org
backslashindex3.html. At the bottom, there's a link where you can make a one-time donation
if you feel so inclined. But I'm going to continue to produce free content, no matter what,
as long as I'm able. And even my medium essays, which you can find links to on my YouTube page,
almost none of them are member only. So very grateful for those of you who listen,
participate, share, comment, and support my work. Thank you very, very much. It means a lot to me,
and to the other people who maybe can't afford to support my work, but listen anyway. And I'm
grateful for those people too. So thank you all. Got a variety of topics on the burner today.
Many of them you will have heard noises about in previous videos. Clearly, the UFO topic and the
topic of non-human intelligences, a phrase I've been using since mid-2002. And I find it very
surprising to see this phrase being bandied about in the media. That topic is heating up dramatically.
It seems very clear to me that the U.S. and other developed nations, if we can call them that,
have been conducting a campaign of disinformation, misinformation,
psyops, hoaxing, threatening people, shaming people for many, many years, so that most people,
actually that's not true, a large group of people basically consider the topic to be laughable. It
certainly isn't. And obviously, this has been going on for many decades now. And we are now in a
situation where it is clear that this has been going on for many decades. There are people in the
highly placed in the United States government that are clearly interested in what we're calling
disclosure. But at a minimum, it seems clear to me, not trying to tell you what to believe here,
that the USG, particularly the branch of the Air Force known as the Avery, has long been in
possession of intelligence, vehicles, quote-unquote, bodies, materials that certainly arise from
intelligences that are not human. The entire field of what we, sorry about the noise for a moment
here, the entire field of what we refer to as the paranormal is undergoing a fairly radical and
sudden transformation. I have been listening to many people in the UFO community, Ryan Graves,
David Fraber, David Grush, a variety of podcasts, including Concrete, Next Level Soul, and the
Archives of the Impossible, which I strongly recommend. The field is changing quickly and
dramatically. It's changing from something that many people would dismiss as absurd or crazy,
to something that there's plenty, plentiful evidence of. And we face kind of a problem here,
because on the one hand, we have people who mimic these abilities, some of them very adeptly,
Darren Brown is one of them. And I strongly recommend that people pay some attention to
Darren Brown if they want to understand human cognition and the ways it can easily be manipulated.
It certainly can. Stage magicians have been doing this for hundreds, if not thousands of years.
And it's true that there are a broad range of technologies that would allow a magician to
appear to be psychic or to have supernatural powers, when in fact they're using gimmicks and
techniques. I've recently written an essay called The Door in the Sky, which you can find on my
medium page, in which I discuss the likely probability, in my view, that for most of human
history, there were directly accessible to us in consciousness networks of intelligences that
are non corporeal or partly corporeal, that were directly engaged with our minds. I propose that
the minds we have today are the remnants of minds that were born in direct symbiotic linkage.
With such intelligences, and in the model that I propose, I suspect strongly that there was a
catastrophe or a series of catastrophes that led in our people, the humans on earth, to the loss
of those relationships, and that when we lost those relationships, our species went crazy,
and continues to be crazy, extremely crazy. I'm going to put my little wind screen on,
so that may muffle my voice just a little bit, but maybe it'll protect against the wind for a
moment. So my proposition is that for the vast majority of the history of humans, we had access,
there was something in us, in our bodies, souls, minds, cultures, and so on, that acted as an uplink
to networks of intelligences that are native to time space, and may in fact be older than the
universe. They are certainly older than our model of the universe, because our model of the universe's
age is in flat time. A mode of time we are all familiar with, seconds, hours, days, measured as
if there is only a single world line. The 27 billion year upgrade to the age of the universe
recently is measured in this fashion, as if there is just one world line. And we measure time on
earth in this way, we are trained to. I've made many videos where I talk about the absurdity of
that perspective, particularly due to the uniqueness of the light cone of any observer. So two observers
with unique light cones are going to have two different experiences of time. There will be
features that may be shared in their light cones, but effectively, if you have two observers, presuming
that they are only comprised of a single cell, one quote year is at least two cell years, plus the
relationship between them, plus the relationships between them in the context in which they exist.
Now, of course, single celled organisms probably experience time
in a very different way. And I propose that what we would measure to understand their temporality
is meaningful events per second. At the cell, these are cellular metabolic events such as folding
proteins, modulating electromagnetic manifolds at the cell surface and in the interior of the cell.
And we have, for a cell, pretty much an unimaginable number of such events per second
at the molecular level if we move to the atomic level that rises by many orders of magnitude.
So the actual age of the universe, if we could conceive of a way to measure it,
that included the world lines and the relationships between them, would probably be
a number that is impossible to represent due to its incredible momentous quantity.
So what happened when the sky doors closed were sort of three things. First, I would argue that
prior to that, it was probably not necessary for human beings to make face noises in order
to communicate. I think that not only are we inherently telepathic,
being trained to make face noises creates further limitations of those faculties,
and there's a broad array of such faculties, not just one or two.
I don't claim to demonstrate telepathy, though it does occasionally occur,
and just as with stage magic, there are other ways to simulate that.
So one of the things that happened when the sky doors closed is that we started making face noises
and communicating in speech, within which it becomes vastly more likely
and possible for us to lie. I suspect that prior to the loss of our network connections,
lying was pretty difficult to pull off, and probably we weren't motivated to do so
because our feelings and emotions about the nature of our being and relationships
were vastly expanded beyond anything we ordinarily experience.
The other problem, and this brings up, this is the connecting thought to stage magicians,
is that when the sky doors closed, two primary factions arose in the wake of that problem.
The first was, and they got mixed up later, the first was
techniques, protocols, and technologies that could boost the lost signal
so that it became accessible again, and what we think of as religions are probably the remains,
the stratified fossilized remains of such techniques, protocols, and so on.
But then at the same time, we developed pretenders, people who could mimic
the character of those who were in touch through the uplink to the intelligences in the sky.
Most or many of the indigenous cultures had traditions and ceremonies
whose partial purpose was to attenuate those signals, to remember them, to conserve them,
and to keep those relationships alive. Obviously now we have vast
libraries of behavioral mimicry in the humans, particularly in the modern religions,
that are similar to what stage magicians do, or street magicians. It's a lot of fakery, and so
there's a vast library of humans who think all that religious stuff is fakery, they're half right.
There's vast libraries of behavioral protocols and so on that appear to be
effectively a contagious form of lying, and what I would call thrips.
There are also beneficial thrips, and some of the existing traditions are like that.
One of the features of beneficial thrips is that they don't tend to be conversionist.
They don't threaten people with things like eternal damnation, or seduce them with things
like eternal existence, life. Rather they focus on insight, wisdom, truth in relation,
truth in thought, speech, action, and concern, and not the kind of truth that depends on facts,
the kinds of truth that depend on relational integrity, deep relational integrity
that continues to become more integral as it develops rather than less.
These would be traditions such as Taoism, Zen Buddhism, Advaita Vedanta,
some branches of existing religions. The strange thing is that although we were colonized
by a bunch of fake religions, some of those religions that I think are fake
have within them branches that are deeply authentic and integral, and have in effect
found a way to recover the signal from within a framework that may be mostly lying.
So there's also like an opposite of the mimics where certain branches of a
thrisk-like religion manage to become authentic even though the shell is untrustworthy, untrue,
or conversionist, and in some cases malignantly so.
The idea that by killing up a bunch of infidels you can achieve some sort of
paradisical reward is one of the most dangerous ideas that has ever arose in our species.
However, the idea that you can rip nature to shreds for the sake of technologies
is a far more dangerous idea, vastly more dangerous.
So when the sky doors closed our people went nuts, we began building machines,
we began speaking and writing in formal representational language,
and that leads into the disasters that we promulgate today as a species.
And it's pretty difficult to not participate in those.
We all, most of us have homes, many of us have cars, we use grocery stores and restaurants,
and we buy products and so forth that contribute whether we wish to participate or not.
Some of us are ethically bound to attempt to defect from that.
One moment.
And I think that's noble and brilliant,
though many of us either have real world quote unquote, actually fake world
commitments that make that very difficult for us to pursue.
I certainly applaud those who have decided not to participate and to do whatever
they feel necessary to leave, to defect from modernity and all of its complex
malignancies that masquerade as convenience, wealth, power, luxury, commerce, banking, and so on.
So, regarding the paranormal, it's not so much a question, and this is actually a central problem
for us, it's not a question of belief. Belief is mostly a matter of opinion.
And how to put this?
I'm inclined to suspect that most of our opinions comprise ignorance.
There's a slice of that pie that often doesn't comprise just mere ignorance.
But most of our opinions have a lot to do with ignorance
and blindness and confusion and insecurity and doubt and so forth.
I would contrast insight to opinion
and insight is rarely concerned with facts. It's concerned with a manifold, establishing and
sustaining a manifold of perspectives that grant us otherwise uncommon or impossible
seeing. And I don't mean seeing like the kind we have with our eyes, I mean seeing
relationships, origins, qualities, potentials, possibilities
in awareness when we are considering some kind of a problem.
This problem, the problem of opinions or facts versus insight, revolves around the collapsing
of manifolds. A manifold can be thought of as a bubble of many bubbles. We have the term
definition, which literally means to collapse manifolds, to de-infinitize
situations in consciousness, thought, concept, language, mathematics. Many of the greatest
discoveries in mathematics did not come from collapsing manifolds. It came from re-ambiguating
them intelligently. And this, I would argue, is often the fingerprint of insight.
The Western world image, or the modern world image, is one estranged from our actual natures,
origins, faculties, abilities, humanity, and greater than humanity. What I mean by that
is that most of us, whatever we may be, is not merely human. I've touched on this point many
times previously, but the manifold that represents our actual existence, potential, and nature
is nothing like what we're told about being human. In effect, our humanity is probably the pinky
on a being with, you know, 10 hands and 17 wings. All of those are denied to us by the
mechanistic, reductivist worldview that presents beings, situations, and relationships as if they
are essentially mechanical dead inside, like the concepts we generally teach our children
in order to represent them. Obviously, there is a problem with representational cognition.
It's not that the mode itself is
blinding or productive of ignorance. Rather, it is that the particular ways we use it in concert
with the dead inside worldviews we inherit from society and our parents
are lethal to our potentials for insight and intelligence.
The paranormal represents, research into it represents an aspect of our human activity,
concern, relation, and behavior that is concerned with intelligent reambiguation
of what it means to be human, adding bubbles to the manifold intelligently, rather than
collapsing them just to the intersections of those bubbles and then collapsing those to what is
essentially a one-dimensional line. That is the way most of us are trained to use concepts,
and often when we argue, the argument descends to
what is true, what are the facts, what is the case. If Joe says it's raining and Tom says it
isn't, and we go outside, there appears to be water coming down from the sky,
we will presume that Joe is telling the truth, most of us. But we might want to ask
why the person who's saying it isn't raining is saying that. They might have a concern about
what is the it that is raining. Of course the it refers to the situation or the sky,
but they might be questioning a problem in the language and say something like,
although there is rain now, it is not raining and so forth. Now again, this would be a concern
with language, someone who actually declared that there is no water coming from the sky and had
the either the ignorance or the intent to deceive us would be understood to be wrong about what is
the case. The problem with the idea of what is the case is that it throws away in order to get
that last little stick, the remnant of what was once a manifold, a bubble of many dimensional
bubbles and identities, qualities, potentials, including potentials for our intelligence,
our sensitivity, our sensing, our relation, our learning. When we try to figure out what is the
case, we have to throw away most of the data to continue with the goal of collapsing that manifold.
In some cases, this can, this process does produce actionable mechanical intelligence.
The branches of human knowledge known as physics and particularly
the aspects related to metallurgy, electromagnetism, light and so forth,
these are the results of attempts to determine what is the case.
However, it should be clear that we don't understand the nature of light or electricity
or what their existence portends or is in some way an emissary of.
Most of us would be disinclined to think, for example, that running electricity in wires or
wirelessly through our homes and cities could have catastrophically deleterious effects on our
