It's still a mysterious topic, but the doors are still there. So yeah, we have channels who are
mostly fake, and we have channels who we can trust their authenticity.
And it really, it's just the same problem we have with religion. It's just the same problem
we have with all of the branches of knowledge. Why do we authorize those we authorize?
And we don't need to know, quote, what is the case, because again, we're going to throw away 90%
of everything to try to produce that derivative, which is useful and dangerous. We should be aware
when we're trying to figure out, well, what are the facts? We wouldn't want to throw that ability
away, but we also wouldn't want to overauthorize it. It will deprive us of agency, insight,
opportunity, faculties, and potentials. I've certainly encountered phony psychics and magicians.
I studied stage magic for a few years and was very interested in it, primarily because
it's a way to understand loopholes in ordinary cognition that can be captured for advantage.
But yes, we have the same problem everywhere. There are people who are crazy. There are bad actors.
There are people who are domineering. There are people who will take advantage of us.
Darren Brown's a particularly interesting example of this because he
will straight up tell you that he's using techniques.
Yet what he is capable of certainly appears magical and non-ordinary.
So he's a very peculiar mimic, and I suspect that if we were to talk with him,
he would probably blatantly say the paranormal is nonsense. There are no divine beings. There are
no non-corporeal intelligences. There is no such thing as authentic magic, i.e. true hermeticism,
true esotericism, something resembling true shamanism, etc.
He would say, I can show you how to do anything these people can do with few exceptions,
and I'm using technologies.
But I don't know what he truly believes, and all of us have something resembling
a public face. This is the face any old person will see of us.
A social face, the face that those who we become close with see.
A private face, only for those we are extremely trusting of and close to.
And then a secret face, the stuff that's so personal that we never display it.
And in fact, we may hide it even from ourselves.
So Darren must be like this, Darren Brown. And I don't know, one imagines that truly great magicians
eventually encounter the non-ordinary in its raw unfiltered form, unless
they are cognitively situated
by their biases and opinions to completely deny its existence, in which case
they may actually fail to see phenomena that literally happen in and around them.
We are each so unique and cognition is so powerful, the trance state of our waking mind is so powerful
that you could have three people in a field, one of them, they could be standing near each other,
one of them may see what they certainly understand to be a UFO. They are perhaps frightened and
astonished and amazed. Another person may actually see an aircraft that is familiar
and a third person may see nothing at all. This is the nature of light cones and distinct
perspectives in being. It's also the nature of our formal representational cognition
to cover over or dismiss anything that violates its dominance of consciousness.
I don't know what Darren Brown's world image is like, his view of reality or what he believes about
birth, life, death, mystery and so on, but he seems to be a pragmatist, he seems to be an atheist,
and he seems to be fascinated with manipulating human consciousness and his capacity for that
could easily deceive him into ignoring the actual non-ordinary nature that is accessible
to his awareness.
You know, there's two forms of craziness, there's 50 forms of craziness, but
two that I'm concerned with here, one is it imagines the non-ordinary everywhere it is not,
and this is usually what we mean by nuts.
I don't mean walnuts here by craziness, but there's another kind that is completely immune
to anything that violates its world image, and both forms are tragic,
unfortunately they're also both extremely common.
I'm standing among some trees in a park,
they are incredibly beautiful, and I can feel their spirit.
I don't think I'm crazy to feel that.
The hope of wonder and insight and learning is always with me and of questing meaningfully
together with like-minded others, and if you are one of those others, by all means, get in touch.
Thank you for listening, I wish you wisdom and bliss and beauty, I wish you ease with that
which troubles you or concerns you, may your life path dreaming in heart be joyful,
insightful, and brilliant.
Thank you for joining me, I look forward to learning together again very soon. Bye-bye for now.
