Hey everybody.
Welcome to another evening walk with the mic.
So we might get a little extraneous noise.
Mic brushing against the mask, this kind of thing, maybe a little bit of other sound.
Sound you hear in the background there is a fountain.
It's an important fountain to me.
I learned a lot from that fountain.
It might sound like a strange thing at first, but the phenomenon around us and even the
constructions humans make, they contain something that points toward what Plato may have been
meaning depending on how we think about the writings that have reached us from him.
They contain, they are derivations of primordial forms.
And maybe forms is the wrong word because forms really imply structure.
But what I mean is something more like character, nature, maybe even something resembling personality.
And this fountain has helped me learn in many, many ways, some of them physical because I used to practice
balancing on the curved edge of the lip of the fountain.
And at first, you know, it's hard to balance on top of a curved edge.
Imagine if you bent a pipe into a circle, right?
It can be difficult to balance on the top of a curved edge, particularly if the surface is smooth.
And this fountain has a smooth surface.
And I'll talk more about the balancing in a moment, but the construction of things like fountains,
ferris wheels, chandeliers, clocks, car tires.
Imagine each of these things for a moment, water wheels.
What else can we think of? What can you think of?
You can imagine a few things I haven't named, and it will be good if you do.
And we see in these constructs primordial principles of numerism, relation, part and whole,
masculine and feminine, plus and minus, bright and dark, slow and fast, drawing in, expressing out
all of these primordial features.
And all of the living beings have the fingerprint of these primordial features uniquely embodied in each of them.
Your own body is this way.
Now balancing on the fountain was difficult at first, though I had been practicing Tai Chi for a while before I started trying that.
Sometime, in fact, I think I practiced for a year or two before it occurred to me that it would be useful for me to balance on the fountain
and walk the periphery of it.
And there's a little bit of danger because you can slip off, you could get hurt, you could fall in the water, you could look foolish in public.
But I very, very rarely slipped and never badly, though I practiced with that fountain for many years.
And there's a reason why there's a connecting thought here to what I will later discuss,
which is that when I first began to balance and walk the periphery of the fountain, I'm going to take a wild guess that it's 30 feet in diameter.
By the way, the old architects, there are buildings here, and they have the same principles.
The old architects, they were aware of these principles and they embodied them.
And they still do, but not in the way it's uncommon these days for artisans and specialized makers, skillful people,
to know in any deep way what the principles were about.
Though they might get taught principles of numerism, you know, cutting a circle and the relative dimensions of columns
and how there's a kind of intrinsic numerism underlying that, that's originally mystical.
And I don't have time to go into why all of these things are this way.
There's a fine book called A Beginner's Guide to Constructing the Universe that certainly contains much of what I learned in terms of the explanatory knowledge,
but the actual knowledge is not descriptive or explanatory, it's not methodological, it's intimate.
One encounters it intimately, otherwise it's merely intellectual, cognitive.
And I think we need a much deeper relationship with these matters than we can get from descriptions and explanations.
But this little book, A Beginner's Guide to Constructing the Universe, it's quite good, I recommend it.
And it is a beautiful, long vignette.
There's a vignette about each of the numbers in the, not the deck ad, which is ten, but the appropriate word for twelve, perhaps you know it, in Greek or Latin.
So at first when I would walk around the fountain, you know, I would watch my feet in the beginning.
I looked down at my feet and I was a little bit shaky in the beginning.
And then as time went on and I became more comfortable, I could look straight ahead and not have to watch my feet anymore, and I was more comfortable.
And because I like to, I like to see where a path can lead.
The dog isn't hurt, it's just freaking out.
Well, I mean, that could be a kind of injury, I suppose, but not in the physical sense.
So then after a while, I began to look up at the sky.
I wonder if this dog realizes just how far it's, it's the Alps will go.
Oh, what it's actually concerned about is squirrels.
He wants to chase squirrels.
I'll be approaching some people.
Then the practice turned to looking at the sky as I circumambulated the fountain.
Now, of course, walking in circles is by itself a very interesting thing.
So one of the things the fountain taught me was the profound value of walking in a circle around something.
Now, I had seen this previously because when I watched Bagua practitioners, I often saw them attentively circling a tree with a particular kind of form.
And I was not yet aware of the primordial signature, the fingerprint thing, though I had had some experiences with it.
A few.
I'll save those stories for another time.
But yeah, I was not really yet aware of, I don't even know what to say, but something like that which the essence of the circle embodies.
The principles, the character, the knowledge, the intelligence, the nature of the circle and the line and the angle.
And as a human walking around a raised circle, I'm an angle.
And I looked at from the top, I'm a kind of weird shaped dot.
There's the owl.
I think that was the female.
Great horned owl.
We call them.
They probably just think of themselves as the people.
There are the people.
There are the beings.
They're listening for the answering pole.
So, seeing from the front or the side, right, I'm like a straight line standing up on the circle.
And seeing from the side, the flat circle on the ground is like a line.
Can't tell it's a circle intrinsically.
You might intuit it.
But seeing from the side, it just looks like a line.
And this is very important, this idea.
In fact, we should teach this to children before we teach them language.
Things would go better for everyone.
So then eventually, I don't remember the exact order how things developed,
but there was the looking at the feet, the looking forward, the looking at the sky,
which is certainly more difficult than looking forward.
But again, also, there's a different kind of freedom,
a different kind of comfort, a different flavor of at ease in the circle walking.
And then, you know, it came going forward with my eyes closed.
And again, you don't recall the precise order.
And then I began to experiment with going backwards and kind of in the same way, right, looking at my feet.
At first, looking forwards later, looking at the sky, then with my eyes closed.
And I remember my old routine was seven orbits forward, seven orbits backward,
seven orbits in one of the two directions with my eyes closed.
I was an egret.
So that circle, that fountain in my eye,
we have a long history and it's very good.
There's much more to say.
I wasn't just walking with it.
The sound of the fountain is very profound.
And watching the light at play in the water is extremely profound.
And I learned things about time, about light.
And when I first started this discussion about the fountain,
I said, you know, I might seem strange to say I learned some things from watching a fountain,
or I learned a lot of different things from spending time with the fountain.
But any fascinated person will immediately understand what I'm talking about.
Most of our famous physicists, well, some of our famous physicists were such people.
And Einstein was very curious.
I think it was really his curiosity more than his technical flair
that resulted in his discoveries.
So it only sounds strange in common language,
in the language of common norms and expectations
and children are playing with a feature that bars the road to the mountain across the moat.
And when I began to think about what to speak on,
the first thing that came to mind was my history of interest in martial arts,
which never began in earnest until, oh, I don't know, perhaps my early mid-20s.
But then I realized there were more interesting topics than that.
Though I may return to that topic,
there are important features that I'd like to share with you about it.
But then I realized that what I wanted to talk about was senses, faculties, abilities.
See, when I first approached the fountain, I could barely balance.
And it certainly did not then, at that time, occur to me
that one day I would circumambulate that fountain backwards
with my eyes closed, spinning a stick around my body,
compared to my first attempts to play with the fountain.
The latter one is, if the beginning was crawling, the last one was flying.
I learned to spin and change direction.
I learned amazing things about the circle and how important one's angle on a situation is,
because each angle of the circle is a different place.
And there are no static angles, right?
Every microangle is a new angle.
And the circle taught me, walking around the circle,
taught me astonishing things about perception
that I'd never imagined.
And they were exciting and novel, inspiring.
There's something alive in them.
But you see, I did not know any of this when I first set foot on the circle.
I only knew there was something interesting there.
And I was drawn toward it.
I felt drawn toward it.
And that initial interest became a long, deep relationship
where I learned many astonishing things I cannot hear catalogued for you.
Though you might learn them yourselves if you cared to try a similar task.
The point is that hidden inside me were abilities, faculties and senses
that I had never been introduced to.
And in order to discover them, I needed a context.
And I often speak about the idea that the thousands of faculties and abilities
that humans have, perhaps the millions, perhaps the myriads,
they are hidden inside us unless they are called forth by something.
And so we think it astonishing when we see a young child singing their heart out
on television, and truly it is.
But it's primarily astonishing because we're not all doing it.
Because we didn't develop those faculties ourselves yet.
Though some of us may have.
And the passion of young people is a very powerful asset in learning anything.
But that passion can be sustained and even deepened throughout our lifetimes.
It was that passion that led me to the circle.
And perhaps even to its origins.
But again, that's another story.
So what I want to make clear, what I want to speak about,
is that the senses and faculties that we have are truly profound.
But most of them remained undeveloped, and so we do not taste them.
And because we do not taste them, we go to sleep.
And then as we go to sleep, we become kind of addicted to representations of them.
To the artifacts of modern culture.
Film and food and drugs and alcohol and isolation and machines and smartphones
and the internet buying things, disposing of things.
It's a tragic spiral that leads us away from our humanity into a kind of dead living.
And please do not think, I know nothing of dead living, for I know a great deal about it.
Most of us do.
It's very lonely and isolating and isolated.
And the more we become isolated, the more inclined we are to continue down,
sort of falling down the mountainside away from our interiority and humanity.
The powers of our emotions and awareness, the astonishing potentials of our human incarnation.
Perhaps most tragic of all is the abject punishment we visit upon our children
who arrive ready to develop these assets into seemingly impossible skills
like holding one's breath for 20 minutes, or climbing a snowy mountain naked,
or being not only resistant to extreme cold, but welcoming and vital within it.
Two arts and practices, some developed by others, some awaiting our development,
that we develop them ourselves.
And no matter whether we subscribe to developmental paths that are traditionally conserved,
or whether we invent them.
Only in this way will we begin to discover what is the incredible abundance of senses and faculties
that are natural to our human form, and that our distant ancestors were intimately familiar with
and lived by, and lived for, and lived in, and lived as.
There's no story or description that will communicate this to you.
Only going on the path yourself and developing one of the flowers, one of the seeds in your essence
will give you a taste of this, though we can be encouraged by language and descriptions
to set out, step up on the circle, find out where we come from, what our potentials are,
what our roles can be as humans, and as more than humans, and as animals,
because we are vastly more than merely human.
And this is the problem with classes, thinking about things in classes and categories and sets.
It's very useful. It's also extremely dangerous and blinding.
And when I say you are so much more than human that all the stories ever written are not an iota of what
and who you are and can become, I mean it.
