You could dispose of all of them, and nothing would be lost because, not that we'd want to do that,
but because you are carrying the thing that is represented, not the thing,
you are carrying the potentials represented in those stories in a way completely unique and intimate to yourself
that also shares properties with the other humans and the other animals and the living places
and the sky and the stars and so on.
And all of this is much more than any idea of human, and you are much more than ideas.
When I say you can develop your senses, I mean things that, you know,
we have all these, we have movies about people with astonishing abilities.
We call them sometimes superheroes.
For example, in the recent Netflix series Daredevil,
we find a blind martial artist with uncanny skills of sensing and hearing.
And this seems a hyperbole, but it's actually a hyperbole.
It is less than what we are, not more, less.
You can learn to hear the heartbeat of a hummingbird.
You can learn to know the mind of a person you're standing next to.
You can learn to sense temperature gradients so subtle that without devices humans would be absolutely confused at this ability.
You don't just contain the sensing and ability knowledge of humans.
You contain the sensing and ability knowledge of primordial organisms, bacteria, animal cells, organs.
And these abilities would shame science fiction and fantasy.
But unless we are invited into a context where we can authentically explore and develop them,
we're going to have a lot of trouble for all kinds of reasons.
Good evening, hi!
One of the reasons is that we'll get representations of them.
We'll be sold some model or system, some description, some paradigm, some religion, some metaphysics.
I'll tell you straight up, you don't need any of the explanations, you can set them all aside.
Compared to what you're carrying, they are uninteresting, they are useless.
What you are carrying, that is valuable.
Your potentials, the assets you brought to human birth, that is valuable.
The descriptions and models and foresail, garbage, you can dispose of all of it.
Though, that said, there are paths that an insightful person can follow that will help greatly.
Because we need a reason, we have to have a purpose that draws us in and inspires us.
And then a context is very helpful.
Now any living place is a beautifully great context.
But us humans, we like other people, we like we're social animals.
We want to learn and grow together and that's awesome and fun and beautiful.
I encourage it.
But part of the path will be traveled alone in one's interiority.
The only way to develop these things is to become fascinated or compelled.
And this is what we see in the people we remember as having discovered astonishing things.
Usually they are both fascinated and compelled.
The man who introduced germ theory, perhaps his name is Semmelweis.
If I recall the story correctly, his mother died of sepsis giving birth to him.
And when he saw the surgeons assisting the birth mothers,
assisting, it's probably the wrong word here, with tools that earlier had been used to dissect corpses.
And by the way, sepsis was a terrifyingly common mode of death of young mothers and others too.
In his time, perhaps the, I don't know the exact window, it's between 1700 and 50 and maybe 1870 or something.
Anyway, he was fascinated, he was a doctor, and was compelled.
His mother had died, he wanted to know why.
And he figured it out.
He figured out that it wasn't a good idea to dissect corpses with surgical instruments,
unwashed, uncleaned, and then go delivering babies with those same instruments.
And so, you know, he did experiments like any reasonable scientist.
And he discovered that the incidence of sepsis declined precipitously if the instruments were merely cleaned.
And no one had ever thought to clean the skin, either, because they didn't have the idea that infections were caused by bacteria.
Or, you know, viruses or fungi.
So, you know, he was fascinated and compelled.
And Lynn Margolis, who we credit appropriately with the discovery of the symbiogenic hypothesis of animal cells,
meaning that the distinct components of the animal cells were once separate organisms that came together to form symbiotic unions.
And before that happened, there were no animal cells, i.e. no animals.
She was absolutely fascinated and compelled.
Her husband was Carl Sagan, a brilliant man in his own right.
Her son, Dorian, is also the kind of person who I'd be likely to refer to with the word prodigy.
I'm in danger of a strong birdwalk here.
But because of that word prodigy, you see, it turns out that when we become fascinated and compelled,
an aspect of our being that is more than human, older than human, and beyond all ideas, awakens.
And it recognizes its opportunity for expression and development.
And if this does not happen, over time, this thing goes to sleep and we accept substitutes for it.
And in fact, we can become terrified of it.
We can learn over time because we form habits.
We kind of get into what we think of as grooves and we dig them deeper and deeper.
The farther away from our prodigy we travel, the more difficult it may become to evoke it or invoke it.
But it wakes up when challenged.
And this is one of the reasons why you see people challenging themselves in various ways.
Because they want a taste of that nectar.
You know, without saying anything to denigrate the ordinary things that people do,
things like running or working out with weights or something like this,
most of those things are insufficient to awaken our prodigy.
They're a little too ordinary.
And they don't.
Their scope is too narrow.
The scope of the fountain is everything.
That's the scope there.
Now, with the fountain, however, it's very different from when I'm relating with a living place or living beings.
The light on the water, on this lake that I'm walking around at the moment, for example.
So there are narrow paths that we see people exploring around us.
And some of them can be good.
It really, you know, depends on who's doing it and why and how.
You can make profound use of almost any such path if you're in it in a deep way.
But my point is that the really good stuff,
what our prodigy is made for, actually, is an array of developmental paths and skills and assets
that I associate with the origin of being and the origin of beings.
And so, the single most powerful motivating force is love, adoration, wonder, awe.
24.
24.
The snow geese in a long wing.
But there are other compelling motivations such as loss or even the sense of injustice,
not in the form that is likely to result in the desire for vengeance.
But our hunger for justice in the form that expresses itself as the desire for deep understanding
of the origins of the injustices that concern us.
And this, you know, was at least part of what motivated Semmelweis,
presuming I've got his name correct,
to think about for his entire life with a burning question, what causes the infections?
Why are all these women dying? Why are many of their babies dying?
What is wrong?
Now, of course, I believe, if I remember correctly, that Semmelweis's end was rather grim.
Surgeons and doctors were an elite male hierarchy class.
And they were practiced in the perspective of,
if that were true, we'd already know it because we are the ones who know.
So they dismissed his ideas for a long time.
I mean, I believe he died in unfortunate circumstances in Bedlam, or as Poe would say,
or perhaps in an institution, or he might have even died of sepsis.
He was not celebrated for his discovery until long after he died,
but eventually his ideas took hold.
Now, of course,
the sanitization of things is both a grace and a problem,
as we have learned from our experience with antibiotics and hospitals.
But you'd rather have that problem, well, it's not entirely clear.
You would at least want the insight, whether you knew what wisely to do with it or not,
the insight that surgical instruments have to be sterilized between uses.
You definitely want this insight.
And we got very confused by germ theory and started attacking our own microbiome and other things eventually.
So it's a complex issue.
What I wish to highlight, however, was it was his passion.
He had a reason to need to know.
Now, for some of us, death is enough of a reason,
and we probably aren't going to get a good taste of it until someone or something that we love dies.
Of course, someone could refer to our animal companions and plant companions and living places.
And that's what I meant.
Death is one of the great mysteries.
And the big questions are very useful for me.
Why are there organisms?
Do minds touch?
What is light?
What is time?
How can I know more and more clearly and accurately and intimately about these matters of time and light and life?
What is it that is recapitulated in the biologies of the reproduction of organisms?
What does that dance about?
Where did it start?
Why are there men and women?
Why is most of nature relatively binary?
Physically.
Or rather, why are most of the animal organisms relatively binary physically?
What is this about?
What does it mean to be a man?
What can it mean to be a man?
What can it mean to be a woman?
What can it mean to be a woman?
All of these questions.
For a curious person, if you were given just one thing, say, a tree, as long as you had light and you were live and such,
it would be enough for you to reconstruct the universe.
There are instances that we've never tasted.
And sometimes these get lumped in under the rubric of intuition.
Right?
There's an animal nearby.
They dismiss them too easily with words like intuition or instinct.
And this allows us to feel that we've explained away the mystery because we have a word for it.
Well, how much of what trees are, does the word tree explain?
How about none?
Now, it's not entirely true because actually, if you look at the word, it's quite sophisticated.
Language is far more sophisticated than we were trained to be able to understand.
In each of the letters, there is a story, an array of stories, a manifold of stories.
And when you put them together, those stories are transformed.
And you can see in the word tree a very complex encoding that carries with it unique aspects of the cognitive evolution of our species.
You know, this first letter, it is both a cross and that which holds things up.
And the second letter R, this can be understood to be referring to radiating, the way a tree's branches radiate.
And this E can be understood in a variety of ways, but the simplest way of understanding it is energy, transforming energy, T-R-E-E.
Now, this is a very simple toy of the situation.
So there is something in the word, but very few of us will ever are likely to discover this, though we could teach each other these kinds of things.
And they are not literal things.
It isn't that R means radiant.
Nope, that's not how it is at all.
R means different things in different contexts, but at the same time has essential qualities.
And what you're seeing as I speak is a little fragment of some of the knowledge that I became acquainted with
in my own compelling fascination with the question, what is language?
Why is there a language using animal like us on this world? Where did it come from?
What does this mean? What might it mean? Where might it come from? Where could it come from?
Right.
A definitive answer is not as necessarily as valuable as speculations that lead us to broader perspectives, deeper perspectives, more intelligent perspectives, insightful perspectives.
Because we're not going to come to a conclusion with any question.
A good question is a vehicle.
The vehicle transforms as you pursue it.
But you don't have to abandon the vehicle with a conclusion.
I don't have the answer to any question.
Though I can give a answer, an answer.
You were born to sense worlds you've never imagined could exist.
And each one of us is like this.
And others have said this in their own ways.
Now some people will say, yes, of course, you can do a psychedelic drug and you will have some non-ordinary experience.
Well, it's not exactly untrue, but I mistrust it for various reasons and I have long experience with various drugs of this sort.
You are a non-ordinary being.
Your nature is fundamentally not ordinary at all.
Your experience that is ordinary is the result of being circumcised.
Having the senses and faculties you were born with either severely inhibited, chopped off, entirely amputated,
or transformed into some method that allows you to relate with the structured cultures and societies you find yourself within.
Now that gift by itself is very profound.
Consider the human child's mind.
It can normalize.
No, that's not the right word.
It can adapt to any culture it finds itself in.
Learn any human language.
