Presuming the child is of good health and not in some way predisposed to not be able to.
But it can also learn animal cultures.
It can learn plant cultures.
It can learn insect cultures.
Fish cultures.
Bird cultures.
And I strongly suspect, and have good reason to believe,
that if we were born or taken to another intelligent, another species not too dissimilar from our own,
or humans that, for example, either used language or a telepathic equivalent,
I think the human child would develop those same skills.
I remember a story that I deeply believe.
Or rather, I don't necessarily deeply believe the story.
I believe the principle within the story.
An indigenous girl and her father used to play a game.
And the game was, you have to think of the word I have in my mind,
and you have to get it right the first time.
And if you do, I'll give you a piece of candy.
And at first, the girl was frustrated and struggled and things didn't work out.
But eventually she succeeded one time.
And after that, it got easier.
And after that, they had to invent a new game.
Because otherwise she'd have lost her teeth.
Now, I don't have to claim any metaphysic or explanation for this.
It's simply obvious to me that it is so.
Mines can sense other minds.
Unless, throughout their entire life, they're told one of two things.
Either that that's not possible.
Or that...
Or they're given some kind of phony, religious, culty, you know, plaything.
Now, weirdly, even that kind of a thing could lead to the skill.
But it's much less common than if things are honest and free of accoutrement.
Decoration.
The unadulterated essence of our skills and our prodigy need no decoration.
No decoration would be fit them.
And when I speak about this prodigy, I mean something very mysterious,
not to each of us, but fundamentally alive in our interiority.
It's that with which we sense and feel things.
And yet, this is just the shell of the prodigy.
The shell has to break open and release what it's carrying for us to get a real taste of it.
And I would like everyone to get a taste of that.
And not only that, I think it's important that if we want to have an experience of the non-ordinary,
that we begin in an authentic way.
And probably, I would certainly prefer that that happen without the use of intoxicants.
Because it's too easy to come to associate the use of intoxicants with the doorway to the non-ordinary.
And it is one door, and it is a door with significant limitations.
This is why you rarely find people who have developed a deep understanding of the mind.
You rarely find them recommending psychedelics in the meditative traditions and so on.
Now, someone will say, oh, well, Darren's against psychedelics.
No, I'm not against psychedelics.
I want people to have profound non-ordinary experience endogenously.
In a natural way without having it suddenly forced on them by a drug.
And this kind of thing.
Because there's all kinds of dangers with that other path.
And some of them are very serious.
And we can easily lose our way and come to think, you know, the drug is the door.
You are the door.
If people have had endogenous non-ordinary experience, then perhaps they are better prepared to cope with and make wise use of whatever might come from an intoxicant.
Now, of course, most people will have, many people anyway, will have a strange story or two of their life.
A story where something that defies the structured representation of reality that we're taught and is mysterious in that sense.
A moment of clear telepathy.
Or a moment of precognition.
A moment of prehension.
A moment of touching minds with another being, living place, or human.
That we can, in listening to their stories, that, you know, we will find some that we just, we feel these are deeply authentic stories.
They may have a confused explanation, but something non-ordinary took place.
Love and strangely injustice.
Unexpectedly.
Fundamental curiosity is extremely useful in the path.
Now, the way that I came to this topic was...
Thank you.
It's funny.
I'm used to walking in darkness and I've just come to a stairwell and someone ascending the stairs as I descend them had a flashlight.
And I think they reasonably thought that it would be a kindness to light my path.
What they didn't realize is I had been walking in darkness and so by lighting my path they were blinding me.
Because you see my eyes had adjusted to darkness.
This is another thing, right?
In one of Carlos Castaneda's books.
Well, it may have been a book by one of the witches, actually.
It could have been Florinda Donner, Taisha Abilar.
Who was the other one?
Kylie someone?
No, there was a third one I can't remember, but...
In one of the books, one of the women who described themselves as witches.
You know, with an asterisk, right, is Castaneda, which is...
They talked of learning to run in the wilderness in darkness.
Now, who would imagine that such a thing is possible or reasonable?
Well, it is. I practiced it. It can be done.
And this is what I mean when I say we have so many senses, abilities, potentials,
that unless we pursue them ardently on our own, or are accidentally introduced to them,
many of us would not even believe in them.
We would say, no, it's just a bunch of nonsense.
Some metaphysical gobbledygook, someone made up, so on and so forth.
I read a story. I may have mentioned this in a previous video, but I'll briefly mention it again.
A reporter was sent to document, to write a piece on the birth of a baby dolphin at a local aquarium.
This guy was quite upset about the assignment because he just doesn't think...
He's incapable of thinking of animals as beings, right?
He just thinks of them essentially as objects that can move or something,
which is a pretty common thing for most people.
You know, they know what the class of animal essentially or basically refers to,
but they don't know what's behind that reference.
So anyway, he went to the aquarium, smoked a bunch of cigarettes, drank a bunch of coffee, was pissed off.
The aquarium people came around the tank and the little baby dolphin, who was six weeks old, was just staring at him.
And then the people left, I guess, and he was there by himself smoking a cigarette.
This was back when you could smoke inside aquariums, apparently.
Anyway, he took a drag of his cigarette and being annoyed at the intense attention of the baby dolphin.
He turned toward it and blew the blue smoke in its face, you know, at the glass.
And the baby dolphin stared at him intently for a moment.
You know, he was pissed. He was essentially telling, like, go away, you know.
So the baby dolphin hung out for a moment and intently observed him and then it disappeared for a bit.
And when it came back, it sort of tapped on the glass and as he turned toward it, it blew smoke in his face at the glass.
The dolphin had gone to its mother, secured a mouthful of milk and demonstrated to the man that it could understand his signal and even reproduce it.
This is a creature who's been on earth six weeks.
Well, that individual creature, anyway.
That moment changed that man's life forever because a fundamental principle of his sleep, right, of his unconsciousness about organisms was penetrated irrevocably.
It just disappeared and then it was safe for his prodigy to adjust his perspective.
Now we can't know exactly what happened inside the man or the dolphin.
But the story is a brilliant one because it shows a barrier being destroyed, a barrier to awareness, a barrier to being.
If you can't tell that the living beings around you are intelligence, you will think they are just things.
And if the world turns into just things, then you yourself are a thing, an object, a commodity.
And so is your time and effort and heart and so on, which is simply a really ugly way to be.
That's interesting.
A miserable way to be.
Our prodigy may be bold or it may be timid.
Each one of us is unique and we're different in different life phases.
But it wants expression and it has the capacity for senses that defy the sum of everything we've ever believed possible.
And that's why people occasionally show us, right?
They're like, look, you can hold your breath for 20 minutes, you know, if you work at it.
You can climb a frozen mountain in shorts.
Not that these are the right kinds of things to do, but just they're examples of stuff we think of as impossible or amazing.
But it's only because most of us are asleep and our faculties are hidden from us,
where we have never or rarely been in contexts that support their emergence and development, their discovery.
Together we can form these contexts and even in this talk, this is such a context, right?
Because by speaking of these matters, we are encouraging each other and supporting each other in pursuing them if we care to.
Now, the reason that I got to this topic from thinking of my martial arts training was that
I didn't study martial arts. This is going to sound a little strange to many martial artists, but not to all.
I didn't study martial arts to learn how to fight. I don't fight.
It isn't that I wouldn't or that I can't.
I suspect I'm relatively as capable as the next guy, so to speak, and maybe a bit more due to my long training.
But I did not learn martial arts to fight.
I learned martial arts because I wanted to understand principles.
And for this reason, I chose Tai Chi.
Though I'm also fascinated with other internal martial arts.
Xing Yi, Ba Gua, Yi Chuan.
So these arts, though they can be applied to fighting, some or all of them have deeply Taoist origins.
Some of them originated perhaps in monasteries.
I've heard stories of Buddhist monks being exterminated and developing martial arts skills in order to survive in China and perhaps Japan as well.
And other places, the Philippines and so on.
But what Tai Chi gave me, one of the many gifts Tai Chi brought to my life and continues to bring, is the context in which to explore the non-ordinary.
Not just intellectually, physically.
Everyone does martial arts for different reasons.
But most of my teachers were very concerned with the mind, the relationship between the mind and the body.
And how to develop extreme sensitivity, because form won't preserve you in a crisis.
You need much more than form. You need sensitivity, relaxation and the capacity to improvise instantly.
Forms teach us principles.
But the principles must be exceeded just the same way a jazz musician exceeds whatever their knowledge of, say, classical music might be.
So I was lucky in that I was able to make a Tai Chi a vehicle for learning in many dimensions that have nothing to do with fighting, that have to do with the nature of consciousness, my body, health,
various capacities of the mind and the body that are otherwise invisible to us and truly look supernatural and feel supernatural when we experience them directly.
So I was able to make of that path a very broad vehicle and it was and remains deeply compelling and infinitely deep in terms of what one can learn from it.
And again, we don't have to decide whether this means there's mysticism or not.
It's simply a fact that a guy I know can sense where you're going to move before you move.
And if you don't think so, you can try and see.
And even very skillful advanced people who don't think so have tried and saw.
And it's not because he's a magician.
It's because he's awake.
And his prodigy has a way to express itself in his body, in his movement, in his relationships in his life.
And it has a few ways, but this is one of them.
And so it may be important for many of us to have some vehicle so that as we invest in the vehicle and become invested in the vehicle,
our prodigy finds a safe place that won't destroy its social life or its capacity to have a job or all these other things.
A survivable place where it can emerge and be experienced and develop without scaring the natives off.
So when I was thinking of my martial arts history, I realized suddenly, ah, yeah, this was a good vehicle.
And then I wanted to talk instead about faculties and potentials and senses, roles.
You see, when we do something, we acquire a role.
If I write, I begin to become writerly.
You know, when I see other martial artists, they may realize I'm not a fighter.
That does not cause them to disrespect my learning.
They know they could probably take me. That's not the issue.
That's not why we're in the game.
And also they are aware, most of them, that there are deep paths that go far beyond fighting into something we don't really have good language for in the West.
And, you know, many might call it mysticism and it's okay with me if they do, but we don't have to call it anything.
What I want is for us to have an experience of it.
Hopefully together.
Because it gets very lonely chasing insight by oneself unless, hmm, unless the context is fundamentally communal,
in the sense that one senses the communality of all beings and the beings nearest us and the beings we are with in the moment.
Pure, undifferentiated potential.
It's a beautiful phrase.
The power to become before it has become anything.
This is an idea implicit in Tai Chi.
And the practice of Tai Chi and similar internal martial arts, we're usually called this, is a very unusual thing.
It's a non-ordinary thing.
We learn about the insides of our bodies in ways that are otherwise simply inaccessible to us.
And of capacities of our fascia and muscles and bones and tendons that would be very, very shocking if someone suddenly showed us them.
Because for a well-trained person, an insightful person, they can move your body with a fingertip.
They can move your whole body with a tiny, tiny amount of force by sensing how you are in your body and how you are in your balance.
So they develop what, to common people, would certainly appear to be extrasensory perception.
Is it actually extrasensory? I don't care. I don't care about that question. It's not interesting.
The fact of the practice is interesting. The fact of the existence of this kind of ability is fascinating.
And some of those who I would talk to, including some of the most skillful, will say very, very directly, there's nothing metaphysical about it.
It's just practice and sensitivity.
But I get rather suspicious when humans use this word just because they don't know either.
And if you press them, they'll tell you, well, actually, I don't know for sure, but we don't need that is kind of what they're saying.
