meaning, root for all of us.
So like three of us would change maybe to one possible, oh god this is so hard to describe.
We were like complex science fiction function animals that were hyper-biomimetic and a mechanical
and yet had capacities that exceeded those of ordinary machines, capacities that would
exceed anything ordinary machines could ever do, which is the nature of biology.
But it's not always apparent because we can select a mechanical hyperbole like computation
or weight lifting, right, and you know you can build a machine to lift, well, most weights.
In any case, as we traveled inside this vessel we transformed, and there were people trying
to teach us things, and there were people hunting us, and the people who were hunting
us eventually caught up with us, but then they just taught us more about the unimaginably
bizarre context in which we were having this adventure, and the unimaginably bizarre consequences
of having this adventure.
There weren't, if there were humans in the dream it was very early in the dream, and
after that what we were was not human, and it wasn't, it was so exotic that it makes
all the ideas that humans have ever imagined of aliens seem trivially, like you know, trivially
clumsily crude, huh?
So we went through these transformations inside this vessel, we went to different sections
of the vessel via tubes and elevators and things, and each time we changed section
we transformed, sometimes all to the same thing, sometimes all to different things.
And none of these things were even modestly human.
They were all hyperboles of aspects of the combination of dimensions of identity, like
shape, form, function, meaning, math, activity, character, identity.
They were, they were like these little localized physical hyper structures of aspects that
you'd only get if you were in another, if you were in a dimension that allowed you to
see into the dimensions that we see only superficially.
This was unlike any experience I've ever had, very intense and profoundly weird and extremely
difficult to remember.
Like I remember a few scenes from the dream, but because the context and the activity were
so unusual, so unique, so novel, it was almost as if I didn't have a form of memory capable
of doing anything, like of recording that kind of stuff, because it contained layers
that I'm not used to seeing at the same time, right?
I'm not used to experiencing at the same time as myself.
And it's frustrating that my memory isn't working better, you know, at the moment, because
this is something really worth carrying a little bit for me.
So this is where I am now.
Now recently, I've begun to wonder about how, wonder at the relationship between narrative
and forms of memory that can be integrated to produce not merely minds, but faculties,
new faculties, faculties that we either had when we were children and lost, or could have
developed what we're never encouraged to.
I think there are many senses that are essential to our humanity, which we, many of us, have
become divided from.
And when I say that, I'm not pretending that I live undivided, only that I remember and
sometimes feel their, their diaphanous hint.
It's great to hear the birdsong more than motors.
So yeah, this dream, totally alien, integrated dimensions of meaning and identity that ordinarily
in waking consciousness have to be distinct, and did that with essentially physical prostheses
or, you know, physical examples in the dream of changing into another kind of life form.
That was crazy in it.
These life forms were only sometimes hominid, hominidal.
They were, I don't even understand how to say it, the dimension that we ordinarily conceive
of as relative to physical embodiment and expression and shape.
In the dream, that dimension was, it did not have the same meaning.
It had the meaning of like form, purpose, identity, function, making.
And I wouldn't be surprised to discover that what I had an experience of was something
like what it is to be, for example, a bacterial, an array of bacterial hypercolonies, right,
that are all symbiotically linked and exchanging information, you know, trillions of times
per second, live at an entirely different rate of lifetime than we do.
So that maybe, you know, a month is one of our hours and there's 30 trillion of them
in a single human body, never mind the extended, right?
But yeah, it was very super science fiction-y in a way that was so far beyond anything I've
experienced before that it pretty much establishes a new class, right?
This thing's in a class by itself.
And as I said recently, I've been reflecting on the relationship between narratives forming
kinds of memory that are collected, you know, that a person's collected inventory of those
kinds, right, has a determinative influence on the forms of mind they can compose in relation
with phenomenon, right?
And the attendant faculties naturally emergent from that mind.
And one of the things I find is that when we return dimensionality to our common human
experience, when there are forms of ambiguity that are as meaningful under the right, in
the right relationship as forms of deambiguation, right, as determination is, there are aspects
of relation with ambiguity that can actually produce more value than disambiguation can.
More degrees of freedom.
And this is part of the essential, essentially soul-nourishing and spirit-nourishing and
heart-nourishing and mind-nourishing effects of art, songs, paintings, poetry, literature,
dance, theater.
It's getting a little dark now here.
And soon again, it will be time for dreaming.
There is no book that will teach you what you uniquely carry.
No, there's something better than any book could ever be.
For a book is a kind of representation of dreaming, and thus it is the structure's remains
of the pure undifferentiated potential that began, the process.
And that as yet undifferentiated potential, and how it gently collapses toward identity.
That's where the secret is alive.
That's where you can touch it, and it will recognize you, and you will recognize it.
That's one of the sacred origins of the mind, of consciousness itself.
Now, I don't want us to worship dreams, or take them seriously, but let us pay intelligent
attention, yes?
Let us pay intelligent attention, for here we have something that once influenced by
the waking mind's familiar cultures, and capable of completely departing them.
And that's a very valuable doorway, that's a valuable doorway.
I don't necessarily believe anything anyone has told me about dreams, but I don't want
my own relationship with dreaming or my ideas about it to be too thoroughly colored by those
of experts.
And maybe that sounds reckless, but it's not as though I've ignored the experts.
What I'm saying is, there's so much more, there's so much more.
And the phenomenon is not only infinitely complex, it's one of the few places we can
authentically touch the before of the minds with which we experience and evaluate our
waking world lives.
And you could argue with me and say, well, it's not before, it's after.
And I would say, maybe it's both, the before and after of our waking world minds.
So, yeah, in this dream, dimensions of activity and identity and meaning and all these things,
they were uniquely re-collapsed to expressions that were alive and that were alien, but they
were not like any kind of alien thing I've ever thought of or encountered at all.
And there were just the strangest features of being one of these multi-dimensional meta-organisms,
right?
I don't know what the fuck to call them.
I could make up a slippery word, right, in my normal waking consciousness if I'd done
so beforehand, and maybe I will later.
Yeah, the experience refreshed me because it was unlike anything that has ever happened
to me before.
I mean, it was a dream in the sense like this is something that happens while you're in
a para-visionary state.
And I think visions are a very distinct form of dreaming that are possible but relatively
uncommon, at least in my world.
If the departure of the sun comes ambiguity, the return of ambiguity, shadows and shapes
lose color and merge, that which was previously static might be seen to seethe or flow.
And so it is with consciousness and the mysteries of dreaming that will never fall before our
inquisition.
Never.
These vistas are infinite, and it's one of the things that keeps me fascinated by them.
And by you.
Oh, I forgot.
Oh, I forgot.
