Hey everybody, it's Friday night, new moon, here's the, here's the scene, that's the scene.
You know, if there were as many people on this street as there are cars, it would be
either like a party or a parade, right?
There are always so many cars here, vehicles, right?
Physical vehicles.
As opposed to the interior aspect of ourselves, that these are embodiments of, these are functional
realizations of vehicles.
Now the streets aren't actually deserted right now, there's a few people around.
But I've seen streets that used to be packed with people on a Friday or Saturday night,
like this one, have almost none.
This tree, right here, yeah, that tree is bombarding the atmosphere with fragrance.
I mean, it's like jasmine times ten, nothing is serious and beautiful.
And there's something of the sunset, a phenomenon for which my neighborhood is named, but we're
not so west that we touch the ocean.
The sunsets here, however, are often quite extraordinary, if a little more distant than
I'd like.
So as many of you are probably aware, I very rarely make videos directly in an urban setting.
It's kind of not my gig.
That's alright.
I can make it work.
I'm very fascinated by dreaming.
We have this word, it refers to something most of us very crudely understand.
Someone just rode past me on a unicycle.
And just, you know, to keep it, to portray what's actually on the street, right, this
part of it.
A long time ago, that used to be the internet.
And I feel so fucking old saying that.
In any case, I'm really interested in dreaming.
And every once in a while, because I'm somewhat on a quest, right, but that quest is not rigorously
delimited.
I have wildly unexpected dream experiences, and thankfully, this morning was one such event.
In recent, you know, for me, my dreaming experience has transformed as I aged.
And a lot of the more intense stuff happened when I was younger, but it was more, there's
more variables than just youth, right?
I've been listening to people's conversations, and seeing them on the street.
Can you hear?
Can you hear the morning though?
Let's see, where is that guy?
Pretty sure that's a guy.
Oh yeah, there it is.
Right about on that wire.
I'm used to hearing that morning dub there.
Now you can hear a little traffic, there's a little bit of foot traffic here.
It's not too, it's not too deserted.
It's funny how some people are responding more out of caution, some more out of fear,
some have a narrative, right, that they're playing in their brain like a map of the train.
In any case, dreaming.
It's nothing like this stuff, well, the relationship to consciousness is inverted, right?
This stuff here, this stuff is relatively continuous, relatively, like it's physically
disambiguated.
There's that unicycle, and a few other things.
So now I'm crossing the sort of major four-lane street near my house, and it looks like that,
that way, and that, that way.
I'm sure you've seen plenty of streets full of cars.
So the streaming thing, every once in a while, I managed to have an unexpectedly profound
experience, and this morning, well, I don't even know how to put it, each experience of
dreaming is unique.
It's at least as unique as it is, at least for me, amenable to being framed, right, to
being collected into this group of experiences we call dreaming.
So it has the general qualities of, well, even those are a little touchy to make a catalogue
of, but it seems trivial to say that every dream is an experience of dreaming, but it
is.
Most of those experiences have unique aspects, even if a dream is a mere repetition.
We are different each time we dream, so all dreaming is quite unique.
But in my experience, there are those dreams which stand out so far, so dramatically, above
the others, that they very nearly demand that we invent another class of experience.
And hopefully, if others have such experience, and I presume that most, many of us do, if
not all of us, whether or not we are capable of remembering it, and thus becoming conscious
of our dreaming experience.
Here are some people slacklining.
And this is a tree that I adore, this tree is incredible.
One year they painted an orange ring around it, and I was terrified that they might cut
this tree down.
Another time, I was in this park, and I saw a very beautiful young woman, near my age.
Look at this incredible creature, I mean, this is the real thing, yeah, this tree is amazing.
I saw this beautiful young woman, and I said to myself, I saw her in a different nearby
location, and I said, wow, she's so beautiful, if she, if when I finish my Tai Chi, she is
in that tree, I'm going to ask her to marry me.
Sure enough, I finished Tai Chi, guess what, she was in that tree.
Another time from these trees over here, I mean, I've had some real adventures with animals
here, adventures that were, that bordered on dreaming.
Yeah, and those trees, from that branch of that, probably Sycamore, a crow, launched
itself in the upside down flying position and flew right over my head one day.
And that's not the beginning or the end of that story.
And here, there used to live an incredible eucalyptus tree, that when I first came here,
up here dead for many years, I used to visit it all the time.
And then one year, it suddenly just leapt back to life.
I liked to think I had something to do with that, maybe that's slightly megalomaniacal.
Here's the view of my neighborhood from here, it's pretty crazy.
Although the camera really doesn't capture it, it's the thing you have to see with your
eyes, right?
The camera is not, yeah, it's just not the same.
I was worried they took out this eucalyptus tree, but it fell.
I talked to one of the arborists here, came down in the storm, so they removed it.
It makes me wonder if there might be some technology, it doesn't seem incredibly profitable
for humans too, to engineer it, but a technology that could allow you to replant the tree.
In any case, dreams.
And I'm being very casual tonight, so my apologies for anyone who's expecting something a little
more sophisticated, though stay tuned.
Yeah, there's stuff we call dreaming.
Many of you will understand what I am talking about if I say that the position prior to
the origination of a gesture or thought or idea or sentence or musical riff, right?
That position before we collapse and disambiguate down to a specific product.
Position is filled with kind of potential, right?
It's very, it's incredibly fertile.
It doesn't mean it will be fertilized and result in a product, but sometimes it will.
And dreaming, I think actually, is the origin and corollary of the waking world minds that
you and I are familiar with.
And that's a fairly bold claim.
Most have learned it has a lot to do with memory and how it's formed and maintaining
it and organizing it, but I think things are vastly more interesting even than that.
Dreaming has the capacity to form kinds of memory that have purposes our waking world
experience would never imagine, let alone authorize or admit.
So it creates this incredibly diverse, unusual underlying aspect for consciousness to refer
to that's so mysterious and sometimes alien that without it we'd have grave difficulty.
There are no conditions under which a raven would ordinarily allow me to approach it that
closely.
I was within like two feet of that raven.
I'm sorry, the robin.
I was so overwhelmed by the experience that I forgot what I was saying.
There's no situation under which a raven would ordinarily allow me to approach that closely.
Now I'm going to take these earphones out because they're actually not connected to anything
and I can hear the world around me better.
In any case, what I am suggesting is that our dreaming experience is not merely the origin
of our structured memory.
It allows us to structure memory and thus invent whole functions of relation with instrumentalities
of memory and it's precisely because dreaming is diverse and complex and sometimes bizarre
and beautiful and mysterious and essential.
It's because of these features of dreaming, I think.
Well, my dreaming mind doesn't like the word because, it's really funny.
The faculties with which we are capable of interacting with the physical world while
we are awake originate in dreaming, I think, partly, right?
Their roots are in dreaming.
Of course, the essence is the waking day, our experience over time, successful or failed
attempts at physical interaction with physical things, right?
I get that.
I'm not dismissing it.
But dreaming is so profound I'm actually hesitant to say anything too specific about it.
The power of the ambiguity in dreaming.
The unique sophistication of its nuance.
This is astonishing.
And I think actually infinite.
It has no limit.
Will be limited is a similar thing to what is limited in the daytime.
Our felt senses and orientations in the dimension of identity, meaning, possibility, threats,
entities, so.
The last night I had a dream, well actually, I'm going to, let's see, it was probably sometimes
shortly before 10 a.m.
Today is May 22nd, the new moon.
And this morning, I had a dream that outclassed everything.
I only wish, got a spider web on me, I think, I only wish that my memory had been a little
more crisp and functional because this thing, it established a whole new class of dreams
by itself, right?
And it wasn't hypnagogia, and it wasn't hypnopompia, I don't think, although I don't know.
I'd been awake through most of the night, I fell asleep sometime nearing dawn, and I
had this dream where, I mean, it was really incredible.
It was so incredible that, like I said, it established an entirely other class of dream
experiences.
Now, I've had a couple of these this year, and one of them, I, in a way, they all deeply
involve new forms of life, right?
Interesting cube, right?
Yes, they all involve new forms of life or new ways of being human that I had never imagined
before as even conceivable.
And I've had some experience of this in my actual waking world existence, so I guess
it's not surprising that something resembling it might arise in my dreaming.
In any case, this morning it did.
Here's where I am now.
It's very difficult to put this dream into words at all, primarily because it took place
entirely in a non-human mode.
The other two dreams, in one of them, they were sort of science fiction-y, right?
In one of them, there was a space station where humans could put on this sort of nanosuit
that would transform them into another animal that was not entirely non-human, although
some were very closely, close to being entirely non-human.
And there was a complex array of adventures that took place in that really strange context.
And in another dream, there was a planet where humans had been there for 20 or 30 years.
And of course, I'm not telling you the dreams, I'm just telling you some plot elements.
The humans had been there for some time, right?
Maybe one or two generations, maybe three.
And on this planet, all of the life-forms were mind-alteringly symbiotic with humans,
so it produced all these bizarre acceptations of the faculties of mind that humans can have.
There was a small girl who could telepathically teach you 10 or 15 languages in a few moments.
There were these sort of warrior people and bizarre healers and all kinds of things, and
it was really exotic and incredibly realistic at the same time.
But the dream that I had last night, this morning actually, was so unusual that in order to
frame it, I just have to tell you about what it was for, sort of, or what took place, which
was that me and a team of five people, males and females, I don't know the exact number,
and it doesn't even really matter, that would be nice to know.
We were somehow introduced, boy, this is going to be really difficult and maybe even embarrassing.
We were introduced to a context in which an extremely complex vehicle that had many dimensions
in which it could travel, not just space or time, identity, organism.
In dimensions we don't actually think of as traveling in, though certainly humans can
understand the idea of traveling in the dimension of organism.
Because we have this narrative, a reasonable one, that we are the evolutionary product
of primate, you know, ancient primates.
So me and the team were introduced into this vessel that was, I don't know how to, I don't
have any experience of what it was located in.
It wasn't merely located in space-time, but it wasn't located on the ground.
We were introduced, and once we were introduced we were inside it.
And once we were inside it, movement between sections of the vessel was equivalent to slightly
unpredictable yet similar transformations in form, identity, activity, way of communicating,
