What do they do? They just live.
So the humans live most of us in a conceptual world that's dead inside.
In the same way our cars and most of our houses are.
It's as if we're trying to import space dead like interstellar space, which may not be dead actually, but it's death for organisms.
It's like we're trying to bring space down to the surface of the earth and obliterate the atmosphere and the environment and all the living beings and so on.
We're that confused as a species.
Now individual humans differ sometimes dramatically, but something appears to capture us at the group level and it seems to be a result of representational cognition.
And our peculiar vulnerability or inclination to represent things we're no longer going to enact relationships with, with words, dollars, images, billions of little objects and so on.
So we have this problem and it's very contagious among us.
I call the things that capture us thrips because it turns out that human minds form a network, the networks like an environment.
In the environment these processes become virulently contagious and they take over whole populations of humans.
So at the group level we're extremely vulnerable to this danger, but again we don't have very good concepts for.
We sort of have the concept of meme from Richard Dawkins.
The word predates him dramatically and we have used the word viral to describe media that spreads quickly,
but we don't realize that our minds are effectively infested with little chunks of representational cognition, thrips, which comprise ideas about identity, value, relational, opportunity, threat and so on.
So we have this highly structured library of thrips in most of our waking thought and our cultures and nations are almost entirely run by them and most of the machines we make are actually expressions of these processes.
The introduction of technology, especially the way that it's used and built on our world, creates a race, an evolutionary race.
It's a race against the clock where you try to heal the temporal and relational and biological membranes, but they keep getting torn down faster and faster and eventually that leads to a collapse of some kind.
And for sure, not maybe.
We're literally stealing the future to fund the present with our machines.
If funding anything very useful or helpful or amazing, mostly what we're funding is defection from intelligence, human potential, prodigy, creativity, love, recognition of living beings.
We're pretty much just affecting as hard as we can from that as a species and tearing down the anciently conserved ecologies which are literally the most precious and astonishing resource.
Imagine, think about planets in time space, nearly all of them, life would need mechanical assistance to exist on, almost all of them.
There are trillions, most of those trillions, they don't support life, so you need machines just to live there. We have a world where you don't so far.
Intelligent beings, especially beings who are native to time space or interstellar or intergalactic networks, would understand and recognize the precious value of the Earth at least around here because it causes forms of coherent time,
literally biological time, evolutionary time, intelligent time, and so on, that are unimaginably rare, even where they exist.
And even if many of them exist, each unique living planet, it's more valuable than as if it were the only one.
It turns out that the hyperstructures, the biologies making time, forge a resource that humans have no language for.
So it's clear that if there are non-human intelligences involved with Earth, and I will argue that there certainly are and have long been, they would recognize both the priceless value of the living planet here
and the capacity to acquire temporal resources from such planets of various kinds.
And they would probably be far more concerned with the health of the biosphere than they would be interested in humans particularly, though there might be some exceptions to that as well because whatever we mean by non-human intelligences is a vast library of different phenomena.
But yes, our world is precious and the introduction of technology creates a situation where we're not aware that just like all the other organisms on Earth, we must compete against the technologies we establish.
Automobiles and war machines and billions of packets of ketchup per day and four billion electronic still images per day and twelve billion video images per day and all of these things must cost life.
So just like the tiger facing colonial hunters with rifles, we're in the same situation, we're just very peripherally aware of it.
Our technologies will quickly outcompete us in terms of their need for what we would think of as resources such as electricity.
And all of the technologies have an entropy footprint, they offload entropy into the environment.
From what I can tell the organisms, okay so this gets to another topic, I suspect that there's a constant, much like the constants were aware of in physics,
which is the amount of mechanical activity and or computation you can get away with without damaging the structure of time on Earth.
So there's some number that represents something like calculations per second per area in a manifold of biological time embedded in that manifold where if you stay under that number it doesn't damage local temporality much or at all.
If you go over that number it starts fucking up time in a really serious way.
And the evidence for that damage would be desynchronization of biological processes particularly in humans since we make the technologies in our most exposed to them in many cases.
So you can see there's a very complex problem at play here where our machines and computers are offloading a kind of entropy that reduces the capacity of biologies to form coherent temporal relationships and thus produce the modes of time that emerge from those relationships.
So just to go back over some of the concepts, organisms are a mode of time space, they're an extremely special mode.
In the vastness of space they are incredibly rare apparently.
Even if two things, even if there are a large number of other living worlds, space is vast.
You've got a hundred light years of no biology between us and Alpha Centauri.
So the other possibility is that there are forms of life that have learned to survive in interstellar space.
And then there's even further possibilities that there are non-physical forms of life and or intelligence that are intrinsic to the nature of space time or exist above that manifold and influence its behavior from above from a position of origin.
But those are very rich complex topics.
So organisms are a mode of space time.
In interior to organisms and exterior in their relationships they create modes of time that are exceptionally rare in the extended context of the universe.
And when you get billions of them on a living planet they weave an invisible dimension of biological temporalities that is unimaginably sophisticated, profound and profuse.
And I think organisms can get around the constant of mechanical computation so that all of their activities tend to repair and enrich the local temporal environment because they're not doing mechanical processes.
Eliminative materialists will say the metabolism of a cell is nothing but a mechanical process.
They're not entirely wrong, but you can't dismiss the biological context.
It's meta to mechanics, at least from this important perspective.
So I'm concerned about things like artificial intelligence, a topic I visited in a number of previous recordings and one that is evolving with incredible rapidity.
You can see the logarithmic spiral here where you get a system that can barely play go.
Six months later it can adequately play the game.
Two months after that it can beat any human player with few exceptions.
You can see how in computation it's possible to establish a very high self-accelerating rate of development.
But if those machines are damaging the basis of life on Earth, which it can reasonably argue, be argued nearly all of them are, in catastrophic ways, that even if we ignore my temporal perspectives are still lethal,
then we will fail to out-compete our own technologies in very short order.
Scarcity will produce war, and at this point, I mean even without scarcity you have war of various kinds, not all of it military.
But yeah, we'll tear down the ecologies that are healing the manifold locally and enriching it, not realizing that those ecologies are literally our own body in time-space.
Although we share related world lines with them, but it's also very important to count from the unity down to the distinct parts.
And to understand the risk for our planet, we have to start with all of life here, and whatever may be involved with it or influencing it that we don't yet understand.
So any damage to the ecologies lands in us in a dimension that we're mostly not aware exists, and it's the biorelational dimension of time and evolution, as we presently understand it, somewhat poorly.
Alright, so I'm going to close that topic there and start a new thread.
In thinking a lot lately about UFOs, UAPs, aliens, I read Diana Poluska's book, which is excellent, American Cosmic.
And I've spent a great deal of time reading and studying and watching what the humans are gabbing about around this topic, mostly on Reddit, our aliens, our UFOs, and our experiencers.
And I've engaged in a few conversations there.
The problem is we're facing, so this goes back to the structure of the universe, identity itself, what things and beings are, and in our lexicons we have root concepts.
The ultimate root is what I refer to as the Unifor, or the Supercontainer, and for us that's usually the universe, or for religious people perhaps creation.
It's the space that we think contains all phenomena, and so all phenomena inherit, necessarily, the features and omissions of our Unifor, our Supercontainer.
If I say the universe is all created by God, then everything that I see inherits that quality. It's all created by God.
There's nothing else to do any creating if creating is going on at all.
If I say there is no God, the universe is a mechanical process, all other processes necessarily inherit the omission, right, and also the perspective on function that arises from a position such as that one.
So while we're facing the radical stories that we're hearing, literally at a senate hearing here in the United States,
that the US military is and has long been in possession of non-human biologies, vehicles of some kind, probably a non-ordinary kind,
technologies that are advanced vastly beyond anything we can even imagine, and materials, and that they've been conducting a frenzy disinformation campaign since at least 1945, something around there,
and trying to deny the reality of the phenomena, and it's a broad range of phenomena, it's not just one thing.
So in hearing this news, we may choose to believe or disbelieve it, and we may choose some degree of belief or disbelief.
Personally, it seems to me incredibly likely that what we've heard from David Grush is true in the sense that there are such projects to retrieve crashes, reverse engineer technologies,
build those technologies, employ them. There are bodies of some kind. It may not be that those bodies are ordinary organisms the way that we are, or seem to be, or think we are.
There are materials, and there's been a long disinformation campaign in which noise was consistently introduced into the channel, disinformation was intentionally introduced into the channel, and so on.
So I take most of that as being very likely to be real. The nature of the phenomena itself is very sophisticated, it involves myth, religion, psychology, media, the government, military,
cops, hoaxes, disinformation, witnesses, and their whole life history and situation and so forth.
So just on the surface, it's at least as complex as that, and if we get down to questions like what the hell are these things that we see in the sky, and sometimes on the land, and sometimes people encounter beings, or at least they report it,
and some percentage of those reports must not be invented. It's not just an invention. And there's a very interesting problem here, but before I get to that,
sorry I was distracted by somebody's security nonsense.
Okay, so the phenomenon itself being, you know, what are UFOs? Well, you can't really ask such a simple question, because what you have is some kind of a sphere of which different slices of that sphere represent different phenomena,
or different slices of the sphere can be viewed from different perspectives that change the identity of the phenomena in our thought. That second thing is something I'm really interested in.
The first thing is useful, we're all familiar with it, we call it disambiguation. What is that? The problem here is that whatever the range of phenomena that qualifies UFOs represent, they do not represent things that fit into our regular categories, mostly.
A few of them might be biological. It could be that there are creatures that travel through space and fertilize living planets, enter the atmosphere, drop off some material, depart, possibly.
There could be higher dimensional phenomena involved, where the actual nature of the thing, we would need a new category to understand it at all. We would have to establish a category that was, for example, partly ambiguous, meaning mysterious and unknown, or unpredictable.
Partly mysterious, partly intelligent, and conceivably partly biological.
So we would have to make up a word and invent a new category, and if we did that, all the other categories would inherit features from it, and we would realize, wait a minute, ordinary experiences actually like this.
Like the mystery part is, why am I here at all? You may have a verbal answer for such a question, it probably doesn't encompass why you're actually here.
So in a weird way, we ourselves, most of us, isn't human, right? We are the universe, we are the solar system's history, we are this sun, this world, this moon, her relationships, then we are beings, then we are organisms, then we are animals, then we are human.
Tiny little piece of us is human, not the whole thing, by a long shot, but the way we use our categories is fairly blinding, and mostly ignorant and anthropocentric, meaning human-centered, as if we're, you know, we think the universe orbits us.
Whatever group us might refer to.
So one problem is the phenomena are probably non-ordinary, and so they have an ambiguous aspect that responds to how you relate with it.
They have a mysterious aspect, there's an aspect of intelligence, there are probably aspects of what we refer to as physics, even though I think we're very primitive so far with that knowledge, and there may be aspects of biology involved.
But what we're almost surely not looking at most of the time is creatures from another planet in a vehicle visiting us.
It's at least reasonably possible that some of that is true, meaning that some slice of the sphere represents that.
I gather or suspect that it's a relatively small part of the sphere.
Something much stranger appears to be going on, and the problem with that is that it will shatter our holophores, right?
It will change what it means to be, you know, it will change the meaning of the universe in our minds, it will change the meaning of the sky.
It will change the meaning of our origin, the meaning of our nature.
It will change the identity of everything, because it's in a position so close to the root of our ladder of identities,
that everything will inherit what we include in omit from our understanding.
If we are indeed told, I guess we're waiting to be told by our government, but it's very clear that the government's not highly motivated to make any such admission.
And so what's happening now is that the people themselves are going after the data directly in various ways, and will form their own beliefs.
Even if the government were to say, yes, it's true, these things that have been said.
We have ships, there are bodies, it's been around a long time, maybe forever.
They probably still won't be able to say what the nature of the phenomena is, because they probably don't very clearly understand it.
I mean, how good is the military at understanding things?
Its primary goal is asymmetric advantage over adversaries.
Its capacity for understanding must be incredibly limited, and if that's the organ of our culture that's faced forward to this phenomena,
we're going to get garbage back.
They're going to be just concerned about, can we build weapons with what we learned from them?
Are they a threat to us?
Can we repel them?
This kind of thing, most of which would be nonsensical to any actually intelligent civilization at all.
They would have none of those concerns, but the humans are mostly captured by this strange colonizing and colonialist lexicon.
What things are, what they're for, what we do, what they do, what we do at them, what we do to them, what we do with them.
And that's a path that will lead to catastrophe, literally the stars falling for humans and probably most of life on earth.
We must form intelligent societies somehow, even if it's at a very small level.
In any case, the way that the military would disambiguate the phenomena would be a military viewpoint.
That's very dickish, knife-like, penetrating, piercing.
They want to penetrate the phenomena.
And I would argue that if we wanted to reach out to non-human intelligences, one of the better cohorts among our societies would be the science fiction authors.
They're like the opposite of a knife, they absorb.
They have insight, they transform, they transcend ordinary thought naturally.
So I think they would be the best, one of the best cohorts we could face forward if there were to be contact, intentional contact between our species and non-human intelligences, whatever those may be.
And I suspect they're complex.
There's probably some biologies, but I think they may not be merely physical beings.
So then, you know, are they angels? Are they demons? These questions come up. Are they both? What is an angel? What is a demon?
So the humans, again, were lexically crippled, were missing concepts that would allow us to understand much more freely the complex nature of phenomena that we experience all the time, let alone phenomena that are non-ordinary to our experience.
And one of the insights I had, so this gets back to another topic, which is disambiguation versus intelligent reambiguation.
When we look at a phenomenon, we start throwing things away, we start figuring out what it isn't. Doctors do the same thing. It's called differential diagnosis.
They quickly collapse the many-bubbled bubble, the manifold of identity, right, down towards something.
And if you're looking at something and you can't tell what it is, you try to collapse it a couple different ways.
And if that doesn't work, you try some other ways or you get a closer look or you keep, you know, or you run away in terror because it's pretty scary in those first few moments when you don't know what something is.
But intelligent reambiguation adds bubbles after subtracting some.
So we throw four or five away, we add two or three. We throw seven or ten away, we add twelve more.
And reambiguation is what actual intelligence and insight looks like.
Insight isn't about what's true necessarily.
Insight is about perspective, getting a perspective that gives you much greater freedom of further perspective rather than collapsing it to a given and ending the process.
You know, we ask certain questions like,
what time is it?
Okay.
That's a question for which we expect a prosaic answer.
It's 8.37.
But there's a lot of other meanings to time.
We could ask the question,
what is the character of the local temporality over the past few days?
This would be a question that doesn't have that kind of answer.
In thinking about time, I had to reambiguate intelligently features of what I'd been taught and told until I could see from an entirely unique perspective that would otherwise have been barred from me.
That perspective is so profound if you change one of the roots of consciousness or meaning like time.
It changes everything.
So from that perspective, you get all kinds of new degrees of liberty, new perspectives, and you'll generate more insight.
So I realized, maybe a month and a half ago, though I always do this in my mind, I couldn't really talk about it,
that it's the intelligent reambiguation of phenomena and identity that leads to insight.
I want you to think with me for a moment about the last time you encountered a phenomena that you didn't know what it was.
Or maybe a few times.
And I want you to think particularly of something that remained unknown even after you tried to determine its identity.
So take a moment and recall in your imagination, in your memory.
Sometimes when, you know, or one specific experience where you couldn't tell what was happening or what something you were looking at was.
It's funny, I was with a friend some months ago and he left his guitar at my house so he went back to his house nearby.
And I picked up his guitar and brought it over there and I had permission to enter his house and stuff.
So I thought, well I'll just take the guitar over there and hang it up where he keeps it.
And I walked in his back gate and then into his garage.
And just after I'd gotten into the garage he came out the garage door not expecting to find anyone there or anything.
I just inhaled an insect.
And for a moment he was shocked and then I saw him go through transitions very, very rapidly.
All this happened in probably less than two seconds.
First he was startled, then I saw him prepare for combat because the first derivation was intruder.
And then slowly, more slowly, he recognized, for example, that I am holding a guitar.
Very unlikely an intruder would be holding a guitar.
I am holding his guitar, oh I am his friend, Darren.
But in the beginning he didn't know what I was, what I represented.
And we all go through this process, particularly if we see something that we do not succeed in determining what it is.
And the fact that we can look up in the sky and see something flying in a strange fashion and call it a UFO doesn't help us determine what it is.
Because UFO just means mystery, right?
It's an unknown thing in the sky.
There was a film recently of a volcano going off in South America, perhaps in Argentina or Brazil, I can't remember.
And there were like 20 objects that flew in a line-like pattern out from the exploding cone of a volcano into the sky.
They were brightly lit.
We don't know what that is.
And when you encounter something that you don't know what it is,
there's a very surprising array of transitions that happen inside us, so to speak.
At least in consciousness and in our psyches.
And in our emotions and in our minds and in our bodies.
So the insight that I had was that when I encounter something that I don't know what it is, I suddenly don't know what I am.
And that could be extremely useful to be free for a moment of our ordinary, everyday thought, categories, suppositions, perspectives.
To be suddenly thrust into the outer space of identity is very challenging and it can be terrifying depending on how we relate with what's happening, how we choose to respond.
Presuming we have any choice.
There are certain kinds of events that impose this not knowing on us, rather directly.
