Hello everybody. Welcome.
Deeply appreciate all of you who listen to my channel.
And I'm very grateful for this time to learn and share and grow together.
It's a Friday evening.
And I'm taking a walk at sunset.
Last night the moon was full and truly beautiful.
I have a few topics in mind.
And I'm not sure which of them I'll pursue.
Maybe I'll start with an insight I had some months ago.
About evolutionary time and organismal adaptation.
So I've spoken in many previous videos about the nature of time as it relates to organisms,
but also as it relates to physics.
And one of the things I'm trying to learn how to show people in a way that they'll actually have the realization
is that organisms are a mode of time space.
So in our thinking, which is almost certainly wrong, time space is the fundamental principle
when we use the word the universe phrase.
We pretend, A, that there's just one universe. That's why we use the word the.
And so we tend to think of time within that universe as flat.
We have the same problem in thinking about time that we used to have, and some I guess still have,
thinking about space as it relates to the surface of the earth.
So apparently, and we're not sure of this, there must have been exceptions.
Most of our ancestors, if they were even capable of thinking about the world.
And that was pretty challenging because there wasn't news in electronic media and worldwide war and all of these things.
And so the world was probably understood as our place of being, the place where we are.
And more than likely it was understood as a reflection or a child of the sky.
In other words, even many of our distant ancestors probably thought of the sky as our origin.
But we have the same problem with time. We think in flat time.
We think about time as if there's just one process, just one observer, just one timeline.
And this is formally impossible. It's a sometimes useful convenience,
but it's so blinding that the results of thinking this way pretty much denies any possibility of understanding insight or intelligence.
So when we measure a year on earth, even though we know there are around 8 billion unique human experiences of one year,
which should be 8 billion human life years, we think about one year.
Earth goes around the sun one time. We call that one year.
Of course, the sun is dragging the earth through interstellar space and intragalactic space.
So the earth is actually making a spiral, not a circle.
The sun is dragging the planets through time space. As they orbit the sun, they make a nested array of spirals.
If we were to follow their world lines.
So organisms, just like stars, planets, black holes, white holes, nebulae, quasars, pulsars, dark matter, dark energy if they exist, solar nurseries.
These are all localized modes of time space.
The sun is a very special local mode of time space.
And by that I mean the qualities inherent in time space in the universe produce stars naturally.
They just blossom out of gas clouds and accretion phenomena.
They eventually acquire enough gravity to ignite and now you have something like the sun.
And it over time probably gathers planets. Planets may form out of accretions. We're not sure about all this.
It's possible they occasionally capture interstellar planets if there are such things.
And over time each of the planets becomes a local mode of time space as do their moons and other phenomena.
But us earthlings are trained to think out anthropocentrically as if humans are the only important thing.
And a totally separate thing from everything else, which is of course not possible.
Whatever might be true, it cannot be that.
From any perspective with which that is true, most of the information has been torched.
Most of the useful information.
So what you have down here are extremely rare and unimaginably precious examples of what time space forges of its own body on living planets like ours.
And so each of these organisms that you see and also the physical objects, these are modes of time space.
Only humans make artificial objects, machines and tools and so forth.
And that will become important later.
But for now let's just think about world lines and organisms.
So let's say we have a planet that can support them and we put two cells, single cells, that can survive on this world in our little model.
On this planet and we'll put them on opposite sides of the planet just for fun.
The planet itself has a world line through time, which is planet shaped.
It looks like a tunnel and it looks like if the sun is the central locus, it looks mostly like an ellipse, its orbit.
If interstellar space is the focus, it traces a spiral as it follows the sun.
And if the moon is orbiting the earth, then the moon makes a second spiral around it in time, its moon-sized, its moon-shaped.
It's like a tunnel that is all the positions of the moon over time.
And inside that tunnel is where the interesting stuff happens.
So because all the moon-like events occupy the interior of that tunnel, right?
The atomic processes, the molecular processes, the geological processes, as well as any interactions outside the moon,
relationally with life or inside the moon if life goes and lives in the moon.
So in most of time-space you have no organismal events per second, zero.
In any cell you have trillions of organismal events per second, probably.
A vast astonishing number.
And inside that cell you have a special bubble of time-space in time-space,
producing biological metabolic intelligence.
And so if we trace the world line of a cell from its origin to its end point or wherever we snip the line off,
we get a cell-shaped, sized tunnel in time.
And that tunnel is absolutely unique to that cell.
It's the only tunnel like that that there is, even if there are many cells, right?
Each of these tunnels can be reasonably understood to be something really astonishing.
First of all, a time thread, a time-size-shape nature thread, so in this case a cell thread.
And you get all of the events that occur inside the cell and outside the cell that the cell relates with.
So you get this matrix of temporalities in this little cell-sized package,
and the cell literally produces forms of time by molecular, atomic, and perhaps quantum mechanical activity, right?
Inside that cell it's nothing like the events that are going on in deep space or even the space right outside the Earth.
So you get this little tunnel-like tube of cell events over time.
And if you have two of them on a planet and the planet goes around the sun, that is two cell years,
presuming that cells experience time at approximately the same rate as a human, which is unlikely.
Most likely for single cells, time is accelerated dramatically, such that a minute may be equivalent to a month or even a year for a cell.
Different organisms have different temporal rhythms, rates, and activities,
so they literally invent through those activities and the cycling of them,
they invent new forms of time both by existing and relating with all the other organisms.
So what you have here on Earth is a situation with billions of very advanced organisms.
Earth has been stable for a long evolutionary time,
and one second here on Earth is an unimaginable amount of vial-relational activity.
So the Earth in time represents a unique kind of hyper-structure
that most likely is connected with many other living worlds through a transport we are as yet unaware of.
I could suggest such transports, but I'll skip that for the moment.
So you've got a really unusually stable living planet with a lot of liquid water, billions of organisms,
all experiencing time uniquely, each one is a thread in a mesh.
That mesh is the hyper-structure in time of their relationships.
Maybe that'll make sense to some of you.
The simple takeaway is that for each organism produces modes of time by its activities.
When you are drinking water, that is a mode of time for your body,
the receiving of the water, like there's an organism there drinking water.
And as the water distributes through your body, that's a mode of time,
the things your cells do with the water, that's a mode of time.
If you're driving a car, it's a different mode of time from reading a book.
Your brain is structured differently and is doing different things when you drive a car and read a book.
All those things we do, those are modes of time.
They're forms of time and you don't get them without biologies.
You get a lot of important foundational aspects of time if you just have stars and planets.
But if you add biologies to them, now the local temporal manifold explodes with unimaginably profuse
temporalities, world lines, relationships, intelligence, evolution.
So that's what's been going on around here for a long, long time.
We think presently the universe's age has been upgraded to 27 billion years.
We think life on Earth is perhaps 3.456 billion years old.
The age of the universe cannot be reasonably imagined if we think in terms of world lines rather than flat time.
And part of the reason why we think in flat time is that we're trained to by things like clocks and calendars and so on.
Einstein gave us the insight we needed to step outside of that, but we were more interested in energy because we could measure it.
Now we can measure certain features of the temporalities of organisms or even perhaps minds.
But we were uninterested in them because it doesn't seem useful for war and we're much more concerned about building machines that utilize energy.
So the number of events that take place in a tree over some span of time, let's say an hour, as you can imagine,
the tree appears stable to us because we're on the surface of the Earth.
But if you were outside the Earth, the tree would be spinning around the Earth.
So it's actually moving very quickly in at least three other dimensions.
Again, the tree would make a spiral as the Sun drags the Earth and the tree through interstellar space.
It would make a spiral.
Its tunnel would be tree-sized, tree-shaped, but along its length it would be a spiral.
And it would go from over its lifespan.
It would go from a seed to a sapling.
It would change its size.
It would change the bubble shape of the temporal unique thing that the tree is.
So the tunnel would start out as seed-sized and would eventually become tree-sized and then eventually would fall apart and disappear.
Though it will have probably produced many seeds and perhaps some other trees.
The world line is the shape of the tunnel over extended time and the events that occur inside it.
So each of the organisms is a very specially privileged local mode of time space.
And all the things that happen in and between the organisms produce new forms of time.
And they do this primarily by dividing a unity and then reunifying it.
So you can see that this is how reproduction works.
In many animals, the male and the female are separated.
Their reunion produces a child and this goes on.
So what you get when you diversify your organismal basis is a vastly richer temporal field for organisms to thrive, prosper and evolve within.
And I would argue or suggest at least that Earth is an incredibly special planet even if there are many other living planets in time space.
The astonishing diversity of life here and you know you've had four million years where octopuses could just evolve.
And by the way, if you want to figure out how old octopuses are, you have to account for all the lives of all the octopuses.
If a single human year is eight billion human life years, but an octopus lifespan is in some cases around seven months,
you can see that the lineage age of the octopus is probably thousands of billions of years.
Many times the flat age of the universe, ridiculous like geometrically larger, logarithmically enormous.
A single housefly, the physicalized intelligences that comprise a housefly, are probably, the lineage age of one housefly is probably around,
these are guesses but they're based on some math Iran.
It's probably around 185 quadrillion life years.
If flies experience time at the same rate we do, fly life spans tend to be between three and 20 days.
So it's quite likely that they're experiencing time at a different rate.
But those creatures are incredibly old and they're perfectly evolutionarily suited for this planet as each of the organisms here is.
Unfortunately there's an exception which is that the humans have two extra dimensions in which they can evolve.
One of them is representational cognition, language concepts and so on.
And one of them is technology.
And in these two layers we evolve faster than organisms can adapt to.
An example is given enough time, creatures and animals can probably adapt to situations introduced by humans
that are not immediately lethal, though some of the things the humans introduce are immediately lethal.
And essentially that puts a cork in the evolutionary temporalities, complex evolutionary temporalities that a given organism represents.
But so for example, unless there's humans everywhere in Africa, say 30,000 years ago, 15,000 years ago, whatever,
the tigers can adapt to bows and arrows and spears.
They have a large enough population that they can probably adapt.
It doesn't mean they won't be killed by arrows and spears, they will, but their gene line, their species form will probably survive.
There's an old story about jaguar hunters in South America and I guess sometime in the late 1800s,
colonists guys started showing up there with guns wanting to hunt jaguars.
And the jaguars had recognized the guns.
This is a little bit like the opposite of what I'm saying.
The jaguars had recognized the guns and learned how to hunt the humans that were carrying guns successfully.
So guys that went down there with guns ended up in, you know, graveyards mostly, probably with a few exceptions.
And the old jaguar hunters taught them how to hunt jaguars with spears.
So this is an exception to the argument I'm forming here.
This is a situation where for a time when guns were first introduced into the jungles of South America, jaguars could adapt.
Now, once it became a big proposition, 10 guys with guns and so on, those animals are not going to be able to continue to adapt.
So eventually what happens is the humans introduce technology, poison, hunting, guns, environmental degradation, species, obliteration.
And so they're introducing like 12 evolutionary threats at a time.
And under those circumstances, the tigers will fail.
They'll become extremely rare for a short time and then they'll disappear.
The humans by introducing into the biosphere the modes of time that are associated with machines and representational cognition
and the peculiarly deadly human relationship with Repcog create a situation where the complex ecologies cannot adapt fast enough.
I mean, you can't adapt to burning down the Amazon.
There's no way to adapt to something that just obliterates hundreds of trillions of anciently conserved relationships in a biological paradise.
And unfortunately, this is what the modern humans at the group level are completely committed to proceeding with.
Now, this supposes that the staggering velocity of human technological evolution is survivable by us. It isn't.
You can't burn down the anciently conserved biological nurseries.
What you're actually what you're actually what the humans are actually doing is they're shredding a resource they don't know they don't see.
They are destroying the intricately complex and symbiotic temporal manifolds, right?
Time structures in relation and biology that the organisms ordinarily repair just by existing.
All they have to do to repair it is exist, right? They don't have to do anything special. They don't have to complete a special mission.
The reproduction is helpful. Just by existing, the anciently conserved ecologies heal and enrich the temporal manifold of Earth.
And this is something you'll probably hear from zero other people, because they just don't think about biorelational time.
They have no reason to turn their curiosity in this direction.
So when we introduce technology, what we're actually doing is we're ripping that manifold apart and we're making mechanical time happen in a biorelational context.
It wouldn't be too dangerous out in space, but local to a living planet, we have to kill to fund all the machines.
We have to tear stuff down.
In space, the heat of machines would be relatively harmlessly offloaded.
And whatever their temporalities are, would at least be separate from the living planet so that they would not affect the temporal manifolds here.
This brings up questions like, I have to keep my thread straight.
Our representational cognition inclines us to see the world as objects, things.
Commodities, we use tokens to refer to stuff. The name for that object there is a tree, but it's seen as an object. It's rarely seen as a being.
Sometimes it's seen as an organism, but nobody finds those terribly interesting because they don't.
