Accidents are one of these kinds of events.
Deaths are another, births are another.
But I had a couple of experiences here where I'm staying where I encountered something, a phenomena, that appeared biological.
I could discern that at least this is a biological phenomena.
It's an organism of some kind.
But in both cases I could not disambiguate it to determine what kind of organ, I mean what it was.
I suspected in both cases that they were insects and technically they were.
But they were doing very unusual things and very rapidly.
So when I first looked at one of the phenomena what I saw was a strange kind of humming blur and I realized I don't know what that is.
And in that moment I didn't know what I was because it turns out that we are who and what we are in relation to what we're experiencing.
Not as we suppose in some continuous, well-known, structured fashion.
And so when people think about UFOs or aliens or non-human intelligences, or if they see something in the sky,
one time the night sky lit up far brighter than daytime.
I was with four of my buddies, we were out in a field, 2.30 in the morning.
And I felt heat and all the shadows, everything just turned into like white suddenly.
And the only thing I could think of that could do that was a nuclear bomb.
So I thought oh shit we're going to die right now.
But after a few seconds of impossible brightness I turned around and what I saw was inexplicable to me.
It was a large glowing blue orb slowly falling much faster than if it had a parachute,
but slowly descending toward the horizon.
And it appeared to be encompassed by a coruscating blue flames.
It was not a meteor, it was falling too slow for that.
It was not something attached to a parachute, it was falling too quickly for that.
Some people have suggested it could be a military flare, I rather doubt it, because it would blind everything.
We don't know what it was.
And we all suffered terror in the face of it.
The reason we suffered terror is that the appearance of this thing changes what we can and will be and become.
And so there's this really interesting little pivot where when we encounter something,
especially something significant that we don't know what it is, then we don't know what we are either.
Because it shatters the previously held bias that our lexicons and catalogues of identities are complete and good enough and true and realistic,
quote unquote factual and so on.
Well when you encounter something that has no, doesn't fit in the catalog,
suddenly you question the entire catalog naturally.
Like wait a minute, I thought this catalog had everything in it.
This thing I'm looking at must be one of the things in the catalog. Nope.
No it isn't.
In fact, the stranger truth is that nothing we are looking at belongs to the catalog.
The catalog is a set of conveniences that we become habituated to expect from common experience.
And mostly our experience, you know, has representative tokens in our lexicons in the catalog and so we feel at peace.
We feel, I know what things are, but in fact no one knows what anything is.
We'd be much better off if we started from a position of not knowing, walk toward knowledge, then dissolve back into a position of not knowing,
walk toward knowledge again, and this is probably how our minds used to work most of the time.
Our right hemisphere were more active, so to speak, in our waking world consciousness.
We'd always be half dreaming, which would mean that the part of identity and the way of relating with identity native to our dreaming minds
would be present with us in our waking experience, and that part would introduce ambiguity, intelligent ambiguity, mystery.
It would help us to see beyond the traps of the catalogs that we were largely enslaved with.
Yeah, so this is one of the most staggering insights I've had recently is that my own identity is suspended during a situation
where I can't yet tell, quote, what's going on, or quote, what something is.
And I would argue that we'd be much better off if we could drop, intentionally just drop the entire catalog and rebuild it,
or drop it and see, right, drop it and perceive clear of the catalog, sense, know, feel, relate with, understand.
Without the intrusion of the representational mess that we inherit.
Because, truthfully, nobody knows what anything is. I mean, there are probably a few exceptions.
I don't know what anything is, but I understand how the catalog works, and I use it all the time, and I'm just as addicted to it as anyone else.
I mean, one example, it's kind of a dumb one with a machine, is a car is supposed to be a vehicle.
But for most of the time, the car is just sitting there. What is a car when it isn't a vehicle?
You could say, well, it's a potential vehicle or a machine.
But if you came here from a place with no machines and you saw cars, you would be fascinated and possibly shocked,
and you desperately tried to find a way to understand what is that.
And what I'm trying to say is that our relatively primitive models of identity are mostly wrong.
They work and don't get us killed primarily because all the humans tend to relate this way.
There's a representational layer in our culture, right, where all the humans relate,
as if everything in the catalog is true and correct, and we all agree about the names and the values and dollars and so on.
It's a big game.
It would be amazing to be able to see without the biases the catalog imposes.
And when we encounter something truly unknown, it might be a good idea to stay with a mystery for a minute
and not just run through the habitual rabbit track, mouse track, you know, labyrinth of collapse the manifold
until you get a derivative that matches the catalog and then forget about it, right?
Without the catalog, any phenomena is infinitely fascinating.
With the catalog, most phenomena is just a representation.
It's sort of dead inside. There's no way to relate with it.
So part of what sometimes happens when the non-ordinary emerges in our experience
is perhaps part of the dreaming mind wakes up because it is well suited to deal with anything that it doesn't care about the catalog at all.
It, you know, uses it in a simplistic way in the worlds that our dreaming mind invents and inhabits inside us tonight.
That is a person and so forth, but it's never merely a person.
The tiger in a dream is never only a tiger, unlike in our waking consciousness.
So I think if you think back over experiences you've had where you encountered something that you could not figure out what it was
and you were paying attention, you may notice that in the beginning of the experience your own identity went into cloud form.
It didn't collapse. It expanded to, in an effort to include the possibilities suggested by the experience.
And this is part of why when we study the topic of UFOs, we need to understand that it's not something that fits in the catalog
and it's something that will change the whole catalog because we don't even have a placeholder for it.
Even if the placeholders of gods, angels, demons, even if those survive somehow are encounters with phenomena.
It's been a great pleasure to walk and think together with you this evening.
Again, I'm so grateful for this chance to learn and grow and see and I'm trying to see better with the perspectives I've been able to establish
in my endless quest to understand what it means to be alive, to be human, what the universe is up to, this world,
what is she, who is she, sun, time, light, consciousness, and particularly light.
Thank you for joining me. I look forward to time together again very soon.
May your ways and dreams be wise and beautiful.
