Hey everybody. Welcome. In an old Star Trek movie, Spock dies and they put his body in
a photon torpedo tube and launch it toward a planet. And this is the place where the
image of Spock's casket near and what appears to be an ancient fern was shot. And these are
the ferns, the tree ferns. And it was somewhere very near here where that where that image was shot.
I've been looking for a place where I can walk without having to put my mask on and off, though
I'm happy to do so if needed. I have so many things on my mind that would be wonderful to explore.
But today I'm going to try to talk about a couple of ideas that are very old and they're
associated primarily with magical traditions. And this idea of magic is very deep and peculiar.
And it's not like the superficial models and representations and understandings that we have.
The ancient peoples were capable of intimacies that we have lost contact with and experience of.
And some of these intimacies were encoded in a way in ceremonies, rituals. Now we still have
ceremonies and rituals, we just don't recognize them. Mostly we don't recognize them as ceremonies
and rituals. Because we're probably many of us anyway are disinclined to think in these terms.
But our bedtime activities, what we do before we go to bed and what we do when we wake up
and when we make food and eat together and when we go to the store and when we look at the news
or when we watch a movie. These are actually the remnants in our own daily lives
of ceremonies and rituals.
Even when we get into our car or we're preparing to go for a walk,
if we use drugs, if we smoke or drink or eat things, all of these are
modern ceremonies and rituals.
And some of them are encoded in laws.
It's funny to think about our relationship with traffic lights as ritualistic and yet they are.
Or at least it can be useful to think of them in this way.
And so when we see indigenous people's ceremonies represented on film or recorded somehow,
we're seeing something extremely ancient and it's very different from our modern rituals
because of its origins and purposes and those lie in anciently conserved relationships,
older relationships.
And when the indigenous peoples have a song,
a ceremonial song, this is nothing like, well it's not true, it bears some small resemblance
with our idea of songs and in fact there is something kind of magical about some songs.
It depends a lot, it depends on many things.
But they did not make up these songs.
The way that we think of composing, right, this is not like the origins of the old songs.
The old songs were transmissions
from living places and beings.
And when we see the dances, often these are animal dances.
These are also transmissions from living beings to humans.
They are not made up.
They are not composed.
They are gifts.
And encoding is the wrong word but it's a familiar word to us moderns.
There are gifts that encode a moment when between the humans and the animals or between the humans
and the living places, sometimes between the humans and other humans,
something crossed over, a gift, and this gift often involved knowledge
that was previously unavailable.
And so when we see these old ceremonies enacted sometimes today,
we are not seeing something that was composed, we are seeing something that was transmitted and
in societies like these
there are ceremonies that confer knowledge and safety and not just physical safety.
But protections from what can be understood as powerful forces,
protections from what can be understood as negative influences
along with the knowledge and the mysterious
shared benefit that can be transmitted
between beings.
So it is one thing if you see, for example, a squirrel eating a nut and you realize,
ah, this nut is edible. There's a transmission that occurs there
but the songs and the dances and the ceremonies, they come from something less pragmatic,
more mysterious, they come from something invisible. So that
a transmission can be made
in a time of crisis or deep need when people's hearts
are alive with hope or fear
and the living world responds and gives the people something valuable.
And this might be a song and it might be a dance and it might be a ceremony.
Now these are older ways of knowing and us moderns being
unbalanced toward our thinking minds and rationality and also the models and ideas
that we transmit to each other culturally and in language and in concepts.
We live in a swarming storm of representations
and although these are not deep and true transmissions, they are transmissions nonetheless.
So in older ways of knowing from other times and places, we find evidence of knowledge
and ways of knowing that are unfamiliar to us and some of us may be inclined to dismiss these
as nonsensical or mere superstition. That's a grave mistake, generally speaking.
Notwithstanding the fact that many of our experiences of very superficial knowledge
paradigms or paradigms that have collapsed toward mere representations
throughout the ages, these are worthy of dismissal. These are not worth picking up,
yeah, not worth carrying forward.
And most of our modern culture is like this, it's not worth carrying, it's not worth picking up.
And many of our ideas about, especially our rational ideas about what can't be going on
are very confused. We have this problem with our rationality where it wants to dismiss everything
it cannot easily encompass or manipulate in thought with concepts.
And that's an unfortunate situation for all of us because the portion of our humanity
or our experience that can be encapsulated or transmitted in concepts and knowledge
is extremely thin. It's very tiny. And yet we use it in such a way as to pretend
that it's authoritative, powerful, or complete. It is not that our concepts and knowledge have
no reality or power, but rather that the contexts in which they have reasonable
reality or power are much narrower than they appear to us. And so most of being and relation
is invisible and mysterious and charged with potential for transformation, for changing
who we are and can be, what our lives are and can be. And you can see that the
representational overlays collapse these potentials into extremely impoverished deliverables that
nonetheless masquerade is powerful or complete or even true.
For something to be true,
a majorer mind is involved, a kind of accounting mind. And again, this mind is natural and useful,
but when it overpowers the other aspects of awareness and consciousness, we're in very deep
trouble. So we moderns don't understand the old people's knowledge very well.
And what we refer to as magic, this we are extremely confused about in general. And then
there are, of course, subcultures and cohorts that practice what they call magic
in a broad array of costumes.
But there are two ideas from magical traditions that I think are useful to examine
and play with and gain some understanding of in our modern context.
And it's a twin pair of ideas important in almost all magical traditions and echoed,
or rather these traditions echo their origins in deep ceremonial intimacy with nature and each
other existence, being, time, light, space, consciousness. And the concepts that I want
to explore together are the idea of invocation and the idea of evocation.
Now there are very pragmatic aspects of these concepts. So to invoke is to bring something
within oneself that is transformative. Now we can see in our cultures all kinds of representations
of this, news and media, food, which is probably the primordial one, although oxygen is pretty
primordial too. To bring something from without within the self and be thus transformed by it
like a seed of potential. And one might say that the ceremonial dances or songs
are both invocations and evocations. To evoke is to embody outside the self something.
So from the magical traditions that involve
something like contact with other intelligences,
we had names for these other intelligences, and they differed in different times and places.
The ones most familiar to us, but these are neither the beginning nor the end of the
myriad intelligences that
underlie the appearances of physical reality, or maybe over, over stand them.
We have names for these like spirits, angels, demons, so on.
And we have this idea of hierarchies among them and all of this.
I'm not terribly interested in that at the moment. I just want to talk a little bit
about these two ideas so that we may come to understand them and perhaps be able to
gain some knowledge and intelligence about these two ideas because they're
foundational to our being, even though we don't need the language. We don't have to say I am
invoking the spirit of fire when we, you know, when we come to light within,
or I am evoking the spirit of fire when I build the fire in the hearth.
There are many forms of invocation and evocation, and in fact these can be seen as
primordial
framings of primordial aspects of being alive.
We take something in, we are transformed, we make something outside of ourselves,
and we are transformed.
An ancient person suddenly transported to modern culture would probably see cars as the evocation
of a bad force, a negative influence, a bad spirit, because the cars actually look like monsters.
They look like demons, and they're not alive, and they kill by going. They kill by just being.
I think they would find very little of our evocations to be good or healthy.
So too with our invocations, we read the news, for example, and that's taking something in
and being changed by it, and that's kind of a representation of having had deep relationships
with myriad aspects of living places and beings over time, so that when we would go into the
living place, we would be transformed by the news, that which has changed, or that which is
emerging, or that which is departing, and that that sensing of intimacy would come into our being,
and we would would be transformed by it, and this is the kind of thing that news is a representation
of, and you can see how thin and toxic that representation is compared to its origins in
lived adventure, role, and relationship. And of course, we evoke as well. We make things outside
ourselves. The ancient cultures, the very old ones, had no concept of garbage. What they had
was a concept maybe of this is not worth picking up, don't pick that up, not worth taking with you,
don't bring that in, not worth preserving, but they didn't have garbage because they
weren't involved in the mass production of objects. In nature, they found all of their
needs and hopes and dreaming met not by things, but heart to heart met by beings,
and so there was communion of beings. And the ancient peoples knew that to depart from this
communion meant many troubles and crises. The hubris of our modern society necessarily summons
nemesis. These are ideas taken from the Greeks. Hubris could be thought of as arrogant insistence
on one's desires or agendas, in abeyance of recognition of the relationships that will be
changed or damaged or lost if one proceeds down this path. And while they did not probably have
these words, they understood this was a very dangerous thing, one of the negative influences.
Now in magic, to invoke is to bring another being within oneself
to embody this being, that its intelligences may be experienced in our human form.
And to evoke is to cause to appear outside us some form of a being or intelligence
that is not human. And so these two ideas are central to magical practice,
which most often involves the first the imagined relation with other beings, non-human beings,
non-physical beings often, and humanity, but particularly our own humanity, my personal humanity.
And invocations of other intelligences can happen accidentally,
but many ceremonies were forged to facilitate these two desires or intentions, these two purposes,
these motives. There weren't, you know, there were what we might think of as very few
motives involved. One was the gaining of power, another was to cause harm to others or another being,
an enemy. Another was to cause healing, to trace back the threads of disease or injury,
resolve them at their roots, so that healing and health
result. And another was to gain intelligence,
to answer questions, to pursue quests. And this is something that I think
we're very sadly lacking. Our quests have been replaced by representations like jobs
and financial success or social relational power.
But the acquisition of power, harming, healing, learning, and sometimes along with the acquisition
of power could be the acquisition of wealth. Of course, there are different kinds of wealth.
There's representational wealth as in money, and there's interior wealth as in wisdom,
knowledge, intelligence.
Now, as I speak, I draw oxygen into my body, my cells transform it,
and I exhale carbon monoxide. Or at least this is our very superficial model of something
that's going on because it is not merely oxygen I am drawing into my lungs. Here in this living place,
when I inhale,
I'm breathing in myriads of molecules, different molecules.
Biologically, you know, many that have biological origins in microbes and insects and birds and
plants, and many that have human origins in industry. If we were to carefully examine
the composition of what we are breathing, we would find, as we now know, suddenly,
that it's filled with myriads of things, not merely oxygen. And we breathe them in,
some of those things become part of us forever, microbes and viruses, for example.
So what we are breathing is not merely oxygen, and here you can see the problem with narrow
knowledge. Oh, you just need the oxygen, right? So when we put oxygen in a tank to breathe it
under water, it's not the same thing at all that we're breathing when we're outside. Or rather,
the way it is similar to what we are breathing is very narrow. It's just the chemistry mostly.
And it's true that it's, you know, we need that oxygen in a certain mixture with other gases.
But no one who is walking on the face of the earth has ever breathed a breath of just oxygen.
You see, this is, here you see, again, this narrowness, right? Well, what's the utilitarian part?
What's the most important part? Well, the accountant who's doing that accounting,
the accounting aspect of consciousness, very useful and important, but too narrow to deliver wisdom.
Well, it seems strange to think that I invoke the oxygen and M transformed, and then I evoke the
carbon monoxide. And yet, it's not a terrible model. Now, if I'm simply talking with you,
and I smile authentically, we hope, then that may evoke in you an emotion
or a response. It also might not. It sort of depends on how you're in.
You see, the call of the crows evokes, they're evoking in the world, right? And my attention changes.
But the smile evokes a response in you. And humans are extremely sensitive to body and
facial language, much more sensitive than they are to spoken language.
The owl.
Now, you see, by making the call of the owl, I'm bringing something of the owl inside me,
and then embodying it, right? And hearing the owl transforms my attention.
Now, you can see that many of the activities, functions, and behaviors of modern culture
