are evocative. We listen to music, we dance, perhaps, or we're like, shut that off.
The sound of engines and machines evokes stress in us when brought in.
Now, the ancient peoples were very concerned about which kinds of things were good to invoke,
to bring in, and be transformed by, and to evoke with our will
to make in the world outside of us, as I am doing with my speech now, transformation.
Because they were aware that there are dangers,
both within our human nature and within the extended societies that extended not just in
place but in time, that we became inclined to form as our indigeneity died out or was killed off
by colonization.
If I make a fire outside myself and I sit with it contemplatively, I am transformed
by this relationship.
If we were conscious, more conscious together, of what we are willing to take in and be transformed
by, and what we will say no to, and what we are willing to make outside of us with our hands
and lives and voices, and what we will say no to, and if we had good traditions and awareness
and we could teach each other and learn together to understand these aspects of our humanity,
we could prosper in ways that we have been too timid to dream of
in the long sleep of our representational cultures and cognition.
In the morning, when the sun rises, I may sing to the sun, oh sun,
source of light and life on earth, beautiful one, benevolent kind star,
come inside my heart and live with me and teach me and guide me.
This is an invocation to the sun. Of course, these are just words I made up, but I do not
speak them without awareness of the actual sun, even though I am merely trying to give an example.
One might say that that more than being, more than thing, is actually the origin point for all
local existence, for all organisms. It's one of the fundamental progenitors,
along with time space, along with the moon, the closest gravidic body other than, you know,
the earth itself, whose gravity influences everything on earth and who has often protected
the earth from impacts that would otherwise have wiped out life.
And if I wanted, though I have never done so,
I could conceivably try to evoke the spirit of the sun, the beingness of the sun.
And in that case, what I would be attempting to do is to bring the intelligence of the sun
into expression, outside my body, but nearby, so that we might converse. And because that's a very
dangerous idea, because that being belongs to another universe that we know little of,
it would be wise to have various protections in such in place. And these, we can see this idea in
the pentagram and circle, square, the triangle, the ellipsis, the hyperbola.
These shapes were used to contain the evocation, so that it would not escape
into a context where its power would be overwhelming and could destroy.
So when you see the representation of people doing magic, and you see the magical circles and
this kind of thing, these are the containers that create a survivable buffer between the embodied
world and the world of origin and non-ordinary beings. Now, many people will say, well, there are
no non-ordinary beings. What's an interesting and rational perspective? It's impossible for one to
know that, however. One cannot say with certainty, oh, there are no non-ordinary beings. There are
only physical beings. Extremely unlikely that this is true. In fact, it's not even true in physical
reality. But I have no intention of pursuing that argument at the moment. What might be more true is
that many of the human ideas about non-ordinary beings and the relation with them are confused,
toy-like representations, commodities. We've seen the burgeoning commodification
of things referred to as spiritual in the New Age movements, in religions themselves, in
the ideas that surround shamanism, even in magical traditions such as Thilema,
and perhaps older traditions such as Vodan, Voodoo.
Over time, the old ceremonies and knowledge tends to collapse into
product, right? Rappers, right? The rapper, nothing inside the rapper, just we're playing with the
rappers. I think it would be incredibly unlikely for an authentic, a person with authentic knowledge
to be willing to take on the label of magician or shaman or life coach unless they were trying
to make money or to gain popularity. A person of knowledge would resist naturally a person
with real wisdom will resist, it seems to me, advertising it. Rather, they will embody it
and have little to say about this unless they're asked in a context that they feel comfortable
with and trust. And so it's a bit suspicious when someone, to me and many others like me,
when someone walks around making the claim, for example, that they are a shaman,
or they are a wizard, or they are a magician, or they are even a witch.
Because the badge doesn't matter. The badge is uninteresting. The essence is what matters.
And the possibilities are so limitless, right? That to encompass them in this way
and produce a deliverable so that I can say, like, oh, this is what I do.
It's a trap that is very narrow compared to embodying.
I am always suspicious of the commodification
of what might otherwise become wisdom or intelligence or skillfulness.
Perhaps this is because
I have seen and in my own way been stung by the incredible poverty
that results from the collapse of embodied wisdom and intelligence and care and concern
and understanding into representations. It's not always or only bad, right? If it were always
or only bad, I would refuse to use language. And that would be an interesting thing to do because
it would change what I can be and become as a human being.
And also I might despise books, which I do not. Though the wild proliferation of them,
I'm a little concerned about.
Our representational aspect that dominates most of our waking thought is extremely dangerous
and endlessly hungry when it is unguided by, when it is not being constantly informed by intimacy
with its origins and its origins have little to do with concepts or language or thought.
They're vastly deeper and what they really are about is relationships.
And those people who think of themselves or call themselves sages or magicians or shamans,
and I don't mean I'm not attempting to denigrate any such people. I'm just merely saying that
the willingness to put on the badge, to take on the label, is too often related to the desire
to sell something. And this is a complex thing, this selling stuff, this commodity stuff.
The world of commodities of value that so profoundly impact the lives of millions or billions
of people. And mostly they impact them very negatively and they obliterate the living world,
which is the origin of human minds and intelligence and potential.
Turning them into saleable commodities, hiding the damage in the places, the living places
and beings that do not have voices in the way we ordinarily think of having voices.
Yet they do have voices to those of us who have recovered our natural humanity with its capacity.
So,
to transform inwardly
in deep attention and awareness, to the non-conceptual, to the non-verbal,
to the feel, the feelings that arise when we are intimate with living beings in places,
even for just a moment.
The subtle movement of the clouds in the sky evokes in me, transforms me inwardly
when I give my attention to that. And there is a feeling that is beyond words,
before words, afterwards. The calls of the animals,
the forging of the little bird. But it goes much further than that because
we humans have capacities unimaginable to common moderns. We have the capacity to
place our being into another being so that we can feel the body of the bird in flight as our own
and see my body from its perspective in the sky.
And someone will say, oh, you're just imagining that.
I wish them luck with that objection because their capacity to forge
that objection relies on their imagination. And they might say, oh, well, I understand that.
What I mean is this isn't a true form of imagination. This is a game and I will have the same problem
with that objection because they're doing the same thing with that objection.
They're just not aware of it because they intend to denigrate the faculty that underlies
all other faculties and that integrates them, the imagination.
And it's interesting that many old religions have severe admonitions against the forming of images.
And even the indigenous peoples were very careful about this
so that if they formed an image for ceremony, that image would be also dissolved and not sustained.
That awareness of that danger eroded over time and transformed into its opposite
where now we live in cultures that thrive on billions and producing billions of images per
second all over the world. What does that cost? What is lost by doing so? Much.
There are vast unaccounted costs for this to the degree that now with our cell phones and
technologies and video cameras or valence equipment, we're killing ourselves in the
living places in order to sustain data, numbers in machines.
A billion photographs per second. Where does it all go? How is it stored? What must die
for that to be sustained? This is the kind of thing the ancient peoples were aware of the danger of,
but they were also aware of having the imagination frozen and flattened into a representation
so that no more is it within us. Now it's something outside us
and we take it in and we are transformed by it. So the image is intended to evoke.
We see the image of the angel or we see the image of the Christmas tree or we see the image
of the influencer and we are changed.
So the image is the evocation, our reception is the invocation.
You can see this principle at work everywhere in our culture.
Advertising is intended to evoke desire.
Either through similarity, similitude, which is a fundamental principle
underlying magical thought. The other principle is contagion,
that things spread. Certain kinds of things
can be communicated broadly by simply placing a seed in the right place.
Similitude and contagion. My friend Ryan Firstdiver, who you can find on YouTube
and who I strongly recommend, is one of the people who understands about these ideas in a deep
non-superficial and not fundamentally representational way.
Like myself, he is aware that theories and models, however interesting they may be,
are relatively disposable when placed alongside their origins and what we would like
is access to their origins rather than the theories and models.
Now, of course, some of the people who are engaged in who will take on the label of something.
I am a guru, I am a teacher, I am a shaman, I am a witch, I am a magician, I am a healer.
It's not all bad. Some of these people who are willing to wear the badge
are deeply authentic in their way of life, but it's a very dangerous trap for the ego
to wear the badge. It can be a way of actually becoming something like the opposite of what
is being presented or represented by the name, because we can easily fall into the representation
and lose touch with the origins. I suppose there was another
feature of this pair, this invocation, evocation, which is to dismiss
eviction, to bring an invocation or an evocation to an end,
but also to evict something that has been taken up in a culture or a society
to get rid of, that which is not desirable to continue with.
There's a word in magic for this. It's just escaping the grasp of my vocabulary at the moment.
Let me think.
Of course, in some religions or practices, there's the idea of exorcism, which is to evict.
We can think of this more pragmatically. We can think of it in the sense that, say,
I have a habit that is harming me, and I'd like to replace that with a habit that is helpful or
healthy, or to simply stop harming myself. It is this kind of thing. I change course
so that the the hooks of the habit, they slide off of me rather than gaining purchase
and restructuring my life.
This potential for something in us, which we might call the traveling aspect of awareness,
the aspect that can go outside of our body and travel. This was well known by the ancients
and largely dismissed by the moderns as mere superstition.
But please believe me when I say to you that there are faculties within you in your human
interiority. And actually, I don't mean please believe me. Please go find them,
recover them, for you will know great joy in recovering them, and you will be endlessly shocked.
You will never get over your surprise at the powers inherent in our humanity,
the power to directly inhabit another being with the traveling aspect of our essence.
As if our soul has organs and one of them can go into other beings and living places and dwell
within them and and communicate back to us from there or even for the other being like the bird
or the raccoon or the mouse for us to go with them in their world, in their body with our awareness.
And, you know, it's natural for us to feel sympathy, which is to resonate with and empathy,
which might be thought of as to form a receptive body for the feelings and experiences of others.
And in the first case, sympathy, it's almost like we become the other, right? They cry, I cry,
with them, half as them. And with empathy, and of course, these words can mean different things
for different situations, but with empathy, it is more that I feel deeply the resonance of the other
without collapsing entirely into it, so that I still have a kind of local integrity, right,
of my own, to go with others in their feelings. And the capacity of the traveling body is more
like the capacities of this traveling body are more like sympathy, right, becoming the other,
but it's natural for us to sympathize and empathize, and this is actually why we like to watch
videos and movies and things. And it's also why, you know, if we see someone harmed,
we may feel pain. And we also have some sense of justice and injustice, right, like that harming
is wrong, I must intervene, or that harming is somehow righteous, and I must participate.
That's a more confusing idea, but we've all felt angry or vengeful. We've all been subject to
retribution or enacted it in our lives, in some ways.
But it is this aspect of our interiority that can inhabit another being, or living place,
or moment, or situation, that I hope you may pursue the recovery of.
Watch the bird. Imagine that its body is your body. Feel its wings as they pulse, right.
Feel its head move as it surveys the terrain. Look where it looks. Imagine seeing what it sees.
Imagine feeling the shape of its body as your body. And as you continue this process,
your mere imagination will eventually open up like a flower, and you will have the direct
experience of being an animal, or a tree, or a living place. And it's tragic that we live
as and die as human beings without this experience because of blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,
blah, blah, blah, blah. There's some fucking authoritative guy, judge thing. It doesn't have
to be gendered. There's this thing, this accounting thing, and it wants to say like,
all of that is just nonsense. I have no experience of that. Okay, you have no experience of it.
But if you have no experience of it, perhaps you're not entitled to say it's not true or, you know,
accessible. In fact, we're not just born with senses. We're born with myriads,
endless potential senses. And if they are not developed, we live our lives as if they don't
exist. And so one of the most beautiful things we can do together as human beings is to work
together to recover these faculties to our direct experience. And by this, I do not mean
form religions, right? Or theories or models or even language. I actually mean recovering senses.
And they're not verbal. They're not conceptual. And our imaginations and our hearts are deeply
woven into these potentials that most of us will live and die never experiencing. Or we may experience
them for a brief moment and be very surprised, but we will go back to sleep, right? We will go back
to sleep in the conceptual, rational, pseudo logical, right? Because none of us are actually
logical. We may employ logic, but there are no sparks among us. Though there are neurodivergence
