who resemble something like this. Often they're profoundly impoverished, because if one dwells
in logic and modeling and computation, then it's easy to evict most of the faculties that might
otherwise connect us with each other, with our origins, with our essence, with our interiority,
with the invisibles. So I had it in my mind to reflect briefly on invocation and evocation.
These old ideas that are all around us all the time were constantly evoking, invoking,
in all kinds of ways that are totally commonplace to us. We just do not think in these terms usually.
And even those who have formally, ceremonially invoked or evoked beings or principles,
they may have a very narrow idea of what invocation or evocation
might be. Some of them may have deep and very rich ideas about these things. Nonetheless,
they recognize the difference between the ideas and being, becoming,
that toward which the language models and ideas point, that which they point toward.
They know the difference between the idea, the word, and
that toward which it points, which is unspeakable, though we could call it by various names.
We might call it sympathy, we might call it empathy, we might call it
transformation of our interiority. So I had this idea to
reflect on these words briefly the other night. And my wanderings today
have only imperfectly, very imperfectly embodied my intention. Nonetheless, it's fun.
And I learned so much by trying to speak of these things, which is a really important part of why
I make videos, right? Because I'm relating, invoking and invoking,
with aspects of my human interiority that are very difficult for me to relate with
intellectually or in language, unless I decide to walk on that bridge between the two.
Reflecting both on the concepts, language, and ideas and on the unspeakable
invisibles they point toward. And I like to come more on the side of the ladder
to remember and to honor, to have reverence and wonder and awe for
the astonishing depth of our nature as living beings, as human beings,
and as essential beings, what we might call spiritual beings, or soulful beings.
And of course, I am rarely satisfied with my talks. They are essays in the sense of an attempt,
right? I think the word essay means to attempt, to try.
But I am grateful for those of you who wander with me
and help me to grow and learn and grant me some of your attention.
And hopefully my wanderings may evoke in you the desire to explore and learn and rediscover
and recover the living library of faculties innate in our lives as human beings, largely
denied, represented, commodified in our modern cultures. So thank you. I'm grateful to have
this time together. And I hope that we shall wander and learn, explore, and quest together
again very soon. Bye-bye for now.
