Hello everybody, welcome.
I don't know how important it is for the people who listen to my videos to see my face.
It's nice just to hear the speaking, but I'd like to be able to have like a little studio,
you know, where I could make podcasts and where I could have a whiteboard or a clearboard.
But I don't know if that's ever going to happen.
It's wonderful to be in the garden, but it's not only wonderful.
Sometimes it's sad.
In some indigenous ceremonies, there is a part of the ceremony where we may promise
to work hard.
And I don't know what the original words meant.
I don't know if they meant to work in the way that English connotates this word.
And really there's many things I don't know, but I think perhaps what is meant is I will
bring the best of me to life today, and I will try each day to bring the best of myself
to the world and to my relationships, and to the beings and places that I love, which
might be all beings and all places, and so we say something like I will work hard, but
I don't think the meaning is work.
And it's not even, it can't merely be an admonition to not be lazy because
when we speak this way in ceremony, we mean something sacred, we mean I will bring the
light I was given in this birth to life each day, even if I'm struggling.
And all of us struggle.
All the human beings have struggles.
All the living beings, they have struggles.
So sometimes it can be very difficult to bring the best of ourselves to life in a phase of
our life or in a situation or in a time of our life.
Sometimes it can be very difficult.
There are all kinds of situations and things that make it more or less difficult.
And sometimes even when we really try, we just can't quite make it, you know.
Something's wrong, something's missing, we're broken inside or something is broken or we're
sick or we're confused, we're isolated, we're helpless, we're alone.
And then it can be very difficult to bring the best of ourselves to life in the day when
we are struggling.
And the human world is not very good for helping us with this.
In fact, it's often explicitly bad at helping us with this.
It just makes things worse.
And so sometimes even though we want to bring the best of ourselves to life, even if we
try very hard, we cannot do it.
In the past couple of days in this part of the garden, I met beings who were in trouble.
I wanted to help them.
I tried to help them.
I tried hard.
But I couldn't help them.
And they died even though I wanted them to live.
They were just small beings, you know.
Then was a butterfly who couldn't inflate his or her wings.
It was the wrong timing.
And I tried to help the butterfly, but there wasn't much I could do.
And the butterfly passed away over the night, and the ants came and got it.
And then this is a time in the moon cycle when many of the bumblebees are dying.
And yesterday, I saw an old queen, bumblebee, and she was fighting very hard to live.
She was trying to get some nectar from a flower.
She couldn't fly anymore, so she was crawling around on the flower, trying to get some nectar.
And I'm pretty experienced at helping bees get back into the air.
It may seem a kind of trivial skill, but it's not, because helping living beings who are
struggling at the edge of birth or death is a noble thing to do.
It's not noble because we think it is noble.
It's simply noble.
One of my neighbors, I don't know her actual position, but she's a natal trauma nurse.
So she helps women and babies who are struggling with being born and giving birth.
Giving birth and being born.
And for anyone who's sensitive, it's pretty tough to do a job like that if you're not.
It's much tougher if you are.
Look like that seems to me to be very noble and heroic and beautiful and sacred.
Now see, if you could not see my face, you would still hear my voice, and you would be
able to tell something is painful and hurting.
I'm hurting.
Sometimes when I've tried to help living beings, I can be confused or naive or I can make a
mistake and they die.
But in this case yesterday with the old queen, she really wanted to live and I really wanted
to help her live.
So I spent probably an hour and a half with her, holding her, warming her and bringing
her nectar from flowers and squeezing out the nectar so she could drink them.
And after a while, she started to get energetic and it was cold.
It wasn't sunny.
It was cold.
Even sunny, we might have succeeded.
I knew she might not live.
I knew when I started, she might not live.
She might not be able to get back into the sky.
I knew.
But I tried to help her in every way I could think of.
And after a while, she became very energetic and I could feel her body humming.
She was working hard.
She was trying hard to get back into the sky so she could go home for the night.
I knew.
Her body was healthy enough, but her wings were very old and they were tattered.
And so little pieces of her wings were missing.
Even though she had the energy to fly again, her wings couldn't lift her.
I tried lots of things to help her, but her wings couldn't lift her and I couldn't carry
her home because I don't know where her home is.
And this might seem like a lot of emotion over a bee.
When I was young, the adults would often blame me for this.
They would say, why are you so upset?
It's just an insect.
It's just a snail.
It's just a little creature.
But I can love little creatures very much.
Even if we've only just met and especially if they're in trouble and they need help.
I placed her on these flowers and eventually she fell down into the leaves.
I don't know what became of her after that, but she could not fly so it was her last time.
I gave her very sweet nectars, just trying to help, but I couldn't fix it.
Okay, when I was taking a shower, there was a spider who I didn't see at first.
Once I saw him, I tried to rescue him from the shower, but I don't know if I succeeded.
I don't think so.
I don't want things to die so that I can live.
But lots of things have to die so I can live, at least in the world as we live in it today.
Some of you might wonder, what is in my mind?
Why am I crying on a video to people I don't know?
Sometimes people have thought of me that I am an intelligent person, and a creative person,
and a person who has some wisdom.
Perhaps some people have thought these things.
Maybe I have thought them myself too.
My actual nature is not to be intelligent, it's to be loving.
I love really easily.
It's very easy for me to love.
I especially love living beings.
I mean, I love everything.
But I'm crying today because it's really hard to be human, and it's very ironic because
we have unimaginable luxuries in our time.
Things our people never dreamt of as even being possible, yet these luxuries often make
it more difficult to be human.
More challenging because they bury our light, these luxuries.
And we become content with replacements for relationships and love, and meaningful roles
in relation, and caring, and gentleness and kindness.
And sometimes I feel like that bee, and I often feel like that butterfly.
I can't get my wings to fill up, I can't get back into the sky, and down here on the
earth I will die.
It's too lonely, it's too confusing, the humans are cruel, and their collectives are
vicious, and ignorant, and bent on killing.
But sometimes even when we try really hard, and we do our best, sometimes still it doesn't
work, you know.
There's so many living beings here that if I am walking here, I am killing creatures,
they're dying.
I can't see them, they're very small, I crush them with my footsteps, and I don't want to.
So I try to stay aware, you know, when I am walking.
It's extremely difficult to be aware if one has a phone in one's hand, in fact it's
probably impossible.
These leaves, this shape here, many different things could eat the leaves, but that looks
like maybe a leaf cutter bee.
It's one of my favorite creatures, I really like them, they're really cool, but I like
all the creatures.
Sometimes in life extremely painful things happen, and some people might think, I'm not
really very concerned with what some people might think, apparently humans spend way too
much time thinking about what other people might think, the possible thoughts of possible
others.
But some people might think, well, geez Darren, why don't you do something actually useful
or meaningful with all of this loving care and awareness you have, why are you busy trying
to help bugs in the garden?
And obviously there's some part of me that can entertain that concern or that criticism.
Hi, hello.
But the little beings, they are very important and they matter, and they are actual beings,
just like the earth or an elephant or a whale or a human, and they are actual beings, and
there's no one that can help them.
If someone doesn't help them, if a human doesn't help them, there's no one who can help them
on earth, in the physical world, so then I don't only try to help them, or rather I don't
try to help only them.
There are humans that I love and have tried to help, too, and sometimes I will try to
help a human who I've never met, but what I'm trying to communicate about is that sometimes
in life it's just very difficult to be human and to have feelings and to feel helpless and
alone and frightened and concerned and unable to rescue those beings that we love when they
most need us or they are dying or they are sick or they are injured or they are badly
confused or they are terrified.
Sometimes it can be really hard to help, and sometimes it's worse than that, sometimes
in trying to help we get it wrong and we cause more harm, even though we may be trying very
hard.
Often we are confused because of how we think or the habits we've developed over our lifetime
and so we cannot see clearly what is needed, we do instead what is habitual to us, and
this doesn't work.
When I was a child, and not only when I was a child, I was pretty naive in many ways and
some of those ways were beautiful and innocent and good, but some of them were also very
confused, like as if I thought the world was a cartoon story, not kind of confusion.
And so sometimes just because I wanted a living being to go with me in my life, they
ended up dying, sometimes very tragically or horribly, because I thought as a little
child well I can put the fish in my pocket, and I was the Cooper's hot couple, I love
them.
They are powerful animals, they are beautiful animals.
Over there it's ironic, there's a blue plastic barrel, maybe you can see it.
A few years ago one of their children died in that barrel because the humans are stupid
and keep making artifacts everywhere that are artificial in ways that get living beings
killed.
Their child was a fledgling and it was a mystery what happened at first.
I discovered inside the barrel the drowned corpse of one of their children, the barrel
was half filled with water, and it's about four feet tall, maybe two and a half feet
in diameter, took me a long time to figure out how the hell that bird got stuck in that
barrel and had to die there.
But the edge of the barrel is very thin, you see and the bird cannot grip it with its feet,
and so it flew up to the edge of the barrel, but on the balancing move it would normally
make when it managed to grip the edge which it couldn't grip, it lost its balance and
fell into the barrel, and once it was in the barrel, in the water it could not fly.
And the water was too deep for it to stand up in, and it could not get back into the
sky you see, and it died there, and I found it, and I couldn't save it, and I was thinking
about how our own minds and lives are like this, we just don't realize that the technologies
the humans make are deadly, nearly all of them, they're deadly to parts of us we don't
even know exist because we never get introduced to them, we get introduced first to the machines
and the language and the concepts and the accounting games and the judgments and courtrooms
and criticisms and wars, we don't get introduced to the original light, I could not save the
young bird I was too late, but as a gesture of respect, I found something with which to
remove it from the barrel because I knew that that was probably the last thing on its soul
and mine were aching to be released from that barrel, maybe it was no help, but I took it
out of the barrel and set it gently on the grass, and I feel like that bird,
many of my friends are like this bird, except they are not yet drowned, they're still flapping
