Okay, I want to go back to your question. What did the humans contribute to the bundle and what was the agreement? What were the agreements also? Yeah, that's that's where I want to go. Okay, because I recognize, yeah, I was thinking in terms of the the tangible bundle, which would be the scalps.
Like the humans, the humans robe is in there too, in, in essence, but, but yeah, the agreement in, like, what happened was there wasn't going to be an agreement, like the, the, the animals had stolen this, this human's wife.
This human.
What's so happy.
The white grass was his name, which is still a family name here.
They had stolen it, the animals had stolen his wife, the beavers in particular charmed her taking her away.
And he was left with a, with a, with an infant son who had no way to feed.
And he in turn stole the beavers favorite grandchild, young pup, albino pup, special pup, and was holding it in ransom.
And there was some negotiations that took place, but ultimately then the beavers called on all of their, like all the animals that rely on them, which are a lot of different animals.
In one way or another, they're connected with the beaver with the beavers. And so they called on all of their friends to come and participate and they brought their bundle.
And the guy's wife back.
And they're, and transferred him their bundle, which was seven predators that were dangerous to beavers bears, wolves, eagles.
There's seven of them.
Not one, there's seven of them in that original bundle.
And, um,
And because
Matoya be
He had, he had had these like,
They weren't dreams.
He cried and he cried himself to sleep every night without his wife, that his young wife.
And
Then this old man was coming to see him.
He didn't know where the old man came from spirit spirit being was coming to see him and tell him
Luffy
Holy
The old man was telling me your wife isn't dead.
This is what's happened. You know, she got too lonely because he was he was a ridiculously skilled trap.
But it required that he spent all his time with nature.
And he was he was
Not
Spending the time with his with his girl
And he wouldn't let her bring her sister.
She was like, can I bring my sister over to the camp?
Because
She could keep me company.
No, no.
Too many people up here.
Spook the animals.
Got to keep a low profile, you know,
Can I go like stay with my parents and stuff
While you're up here
Visit with my parents and they're in their class. Hey
I want you here with me. I want you here with me.
I want you here with me. I want you here with me.
And so she got, you know,
Bored and lonely
And the beavers noticed this and then there was a be a bachelor beaver
Kind of like
Transformed himself to look like a like a handsome young man
Charmed her to go with him and eventually like
Led her.
What's up? What's up, Jimmy?
You want to go out?
I think they think there's something outside.
All the dogs are barking and stuff.
It's okay. It's okay, you guys.
No, there's nothing out there.
Look, I'll look out the door.
I'm looking out.
There's nobody.
Just a snowy neighborhood.
All right, go to bed.
You guys chill up.
So
So
There wasn't going to be a much of a negotiation because
Like they brought this bundle to him
That they considered very sacred
And they brought his wife back and they were like all we want is our pup
And he and he refused
And he refused based on what this old man the spirit man had been telling him. Hey
He held on to that pup
And then
This M money see
The order
Addressed the other animals and said
The nerve of this human being
Money to do
They only just arrived here
And
He's making Mike
Your most sacred bundles not enough for him
You know look at the sky
And this is where this is where right right came into the story. It was through the order
The order was ready to dance and he is like look at you know look at this character sitting here. He's soft. He's slow. He's weak
Can't fly
Can't run worth a damn
Can't fend for himself
Yeah, why don't we just all gang up on him and eat him be done with it
You know
And this is this is when the
The elder beaver
Kind of stepped in because the animals were considering it
And
It was it was an obvious solution
You know he wasn't accepting their offer
It was a good offer
Fuck this guy
You know in who is this guy like he's got you know nothing
So
But the elder beaver said okay
Yeah, we can like you know
But the elder beaver said okay. Yeah, we can like it'd be easy to kill this guy. You're right
It's nothing like as far as like a physical challenge to us. It's nothing
We'll kill this guy like a heartbeat but
The other humans are gonna learn about this
There's a lot of other humans
They're gonna learn about this
Because when you do something like that
You can't keep it secret
It's gonna come out
No
So
We could go that route
And be done with this tonight right right here right now
But that's not really what I called you here for
Like I need you guys's help
I think rather than
Establishing that as our future
In relation to these humans these people
We should
Maybe help them
Compensate
For some of their shortcomings, you know, they're not really adapted to live here. We've been living here a long time
Give them some of our knowledge about how to
Live here and live here well in relation to each other
How to like all the problems that we have
They're
How to like all the all the course stuff hey how to live here it's a way of life in this place and
If we teach them that
Then in turn they will have respect for us
And they won't just kill us
Because they're afraid when they see us
They'll kill us some of us to eat us
But
They'll have respect for us. We've lived here a lot longer all of our
All of our you know the things that we've learned
You know estimato we've embodied
They haven't embodied any they're born and they don't have any that instinct stuff
So we will get we'll share with them some of what we have and they practice that in the future
They'll have that
And and and we'll live respectfully so that was what the humans ultimately signed up. Well, that was what
The animals ultimately signed on for
You know
You don't really get a sense of whether he was a philosopher or not
Or a politician or anything he was a trapper right but he was he was told by this old man in these in these encounters
Not to give that pop-up not to agree to the to the whole thing until
Until there was a sign
That he would recognize
That it was okay to do that hey
And that did come at the end because all the animals gave things
Gave their robes gave their songs
And then the old beavers, you know again, he's like okay like look at this this giant this giant bundle
And we've given you so much of our knowledge and stuff right all I want is my pup
And and
But three oppie didn't feel like he'd seen what he needed to see
Like whatever was supposed to be his cute
So there's still there's still people here who haven't given anything
And there was there was these two people like each one beside the door to like everybody that came to that
Transform themselves to look human-esque like that's part of the story too
If you really tell the story in a good black foot way you describe it
Describe, you know the different animal beings that came in there, but they tried to make themselves look human-esque and they were grotesque
They freaked out
Motoyapi so much he couldn't he couldn't
Hardly bear to look at them because they were so like frightening
Hmm, you know
And there was these two
There were there were on either side of the lodge door
That had these robes pulled up over their heads
And
Those two haven't I
Don't know what's going on there, you know they haven't given anything to the bundle
Who are they and then they pulled back their
Their robes and the and the one was that old man that had been coming to him
In the night and
Then the other one was the old woman
And they started singing their songs to give to the bundle
And when they started singing their songs then it became immediately apparent that this is the Sun and the Moon
Not totally and Koko Miki song
Yeah
And they they gave a lot of songs
And then when they were done
Koko Miki some the night the night Sun opened the
Lodge door and called in this boy
Who brought in these two animals that nobody had ever seen
One of them was black and one of them was white
The male was black the female was white
and
He led these two animals in and he said that this is you know he started singing songs and this was
The Morning Star of course and
And what he gave to the bundle were the dogs
The
Link's tail is also like the actual person who embodies the Morning Star in the ceremony. Where's the link's tail?
But he brought that he brought domesticated dogs
Nobody'd ever known them before and he said this this this
This black dog this male dog
Will haul your bundle when you move
From camp to camp you make a travel and he'll carry a bundle this female dog is gonna make more dogs and
You're gonna give these dogs to the humans these dogs are gonna protect all the humans
They're gonna look out for you whenever any dangers approaching
