We would not be well motivated to accomplish great things.
And this is an unusually interesting perspective that I have shared because many, a number of people that I know have said, oh shit, it's over.
We were done as humans. We fucked up. We pulled the death switch. It's over.
And to these people I often reply, no, you've got that backwards. The house is always on fire.
There never was a time when the house isn't on fire. An asteroid can hit the earth. You don't know when you're going to die.
So the fact that the house is on fire is not cause for despair. It's cause for heroism.
It means that because life is delicate and beautiful, we are called beyond the pale expanse of our ordinary concerns with convenience and hedonism and self-preservation and comfort.
We're called to higher ground. We're called to heroic and urgent unifications and advancements and intelligences that we would otherwise have no need of considering.
And we could like cows in the field of our dominance of nature just chew the cud of the ecologies and produce no useful behavior.
So I understand the people who think, for example, that it's game over, man, we're done.
But it was game over when we were born.
At least for the specific unit of the expression of the history and future of life on earth, that this body I inhabit comprises being born means I will die.
Now here is one of the creatures that I was speaking about earlier, the bug.
And there are two, there's one like this, and due to their behavior, and people might not like me for this,
but due to their behavior, I'm going to suggest that I can tell the difference in the genders, and that this one is female.
And I suspect that the ones that have an orange stripe around the edge of their bodies and are exactly the same size and the same phenotype due to their behavior are male.
The females are not so prone to extreme reaction to my arrival. The males are very defensive.
I am not saying that we can judge all things by these standards or humans or anything like that.
I'm saying that it's my experience as an observer of nature that in general, males and females behave in ways that one can learn to produce generalized templates of.
So that upon seeing a single insect or bird, you might have a shot at determining whether or not it's male or female and some of them just look different.
A lot of them look different. Often the males are more colorful and that orange stripe, that's color, right?
Not always. Sometimes the males are drab. Sometimes the females are gigantic and the males are tiny.
Sometimes the females are aggressive and fierce and the males are relatively, well, let's just say less violent, relatively, as in praying mantises.
So they were talking about the apocalypse and they talk, Eric's so brilliant about talking how various pressures and perspectives on threat and opportunity over time are inclined to affect behavior.
And it's brilliant. I love listening to him. I learn every time I listen to him, whether I like what he's saying or not. And sometimes I don't.
Some of his pet perspectives I don't favor, but that's not important. It doesn't matter. I'm not here to try and convince anyone that my taste should be their taste.
But I did enjoy when they were speaking about how the imposition of awareness of apocalypse, whether it's personal, societal, national, ecological, epidemiological, how it affects humans.
And one of the things they were talking about is that presently we're so disoriented that one of the things that's going on in the United States, here's another little running spider, jamming along,
is that it's just causing people to attack each other, which is a very unfortunate situation that we should draw important intelligence from the emergence of.
And we should act on that intelligence quickly because otherwise predators and pirates who can foment that problem will prosper there from and dominate, continue to dominate and further dominate the common people, the history and future of life on Earth and so on, the possibility of human intelligence, etc.
I find it interesting that the coyotes, at least these ones that made these particular regurgitations, chose right the center of the path on which the humans tread to emit their sort of package of undigested skin and bone and such that they were carrying in their bellies.
Those are the only ones I've ever seen, I've never seen the disgorged remains of the digestive contents of predators, except these two on just this path, because I have not traveled far in my life, at least not physically.
When I began the video today, ordinarily I will try to select an agenda before I begin.
And that got me in a little trouble yesterday because I should have ended the video before I began talking about statistics, and I should have talked about statistics in a separate video.
And the reason is that the topics don't fit well together. I made something that I think was relatively beautiful in my explorations of memory and intelligence and so on.
And then I put kind of some poopy sauce on the top that didn't belong there by wandering into my concerns about science and statistics.
This, however, is part of being human. I have to make mistakes to learn, and I'm still learning how to make the kinds of videos that I hope to make, and I thank you for your patience with that process.
In the beginning, when I first began making videos, I had to learn how to avoid filler words, like, you know, these kinds of words.
And at first I wasn't sure I'd be able to do it, and I was quite embarrassed when I played back the videos I'd recorded to see they were like peppered with filler words.
I just did it. They were like, they were like peppered with filler words. But over time I became better at it, and it's a moving target.
We don't achieve perfection. We tend to achieve improvement. Improvement is achievable. If we have to shoot for perfection, most of us will never get off the starting line, as if we start on lines, which we do not, unless we're racing.
So, this afternoon I had a couple of agendas, and I still have them. But I also wondered about the difference in what emerges if I allow myself the liberty to simply proceed to wander, to birdwalk.
This is a colloquialism for just kind of wandering around, right?
And sometimes I can birdwalk, and if I allow myself to birdwalk I get something I wasn't expecting. I always get something I wasn't expecting, but if I'm birdwalking I often get results that are beautiful and I discover something I wasn't previously aware of.
The same thing happens when I follow agendas, but it's different, right? It's just the sort of question of, do we travel in a structured way or an unstructured way, and of course the answer is always both.
And one of them tends to dominate overall, you know, if we do the analysis at the end. But analysis is always after the fact, right?
So, I was wondering today, should I birdwalk or follow my agenda?
And I guess I decided to sort of play it as it lays, which means, again, a little of both.
But I'm going to now turn toward my actual agenda after birdwalking for a while.
And sometimes for me to be able to really, to really, to capture a topic and communicate the bones and organs and skin and blood and mind of the thing, I need time.
Which often means I have to make a video first in which I begin the process and then like fall asleep at night and have struggles with work during the week that I hate and then, you know, try to get food and be afraid of getting a virus and struggle with my health problems and dream a lot, I hope.
And then suddenly, you know, boom, I get a condensed, deliverable vehicle of insight.
And something like this happened to me this morning when I was thinking about people constantly arguing on social media over things they actually don't understand.
And they're not trying to understand them, they're trying to promote a position, their position.
And that position is largely an emotional position that they then try to justify with rational, you know, with what they think of as rational argument.
And this is peculiarly like how the waking mind works.
We make decisions long before and in abeyance of the explanations we later produce to justify them.
And that part of that process is the waking mind taking credit for our decisions, right, which are not mostly made by the waking mind.
They're made by primordial aspects of our human biology and essence, perhaps even our soul, that the waking mind could never draw a circle around and get a grasp on.
And it does not like things that can't get a grasp on.
The waking mind is relatively tool-oriented.
And by this, when I refer to the waking mind, I sort of mean many aspects of the specializations we presently associate with the left cerebral hemisphere, i.e., right side of the body.
So that constellation of layered neurological and physiological and emotocognitive inclinations likes to come up with explanations after the fact.
And it likes to hide that.
It doesn't want that scene.
That would be like seeing it naked.
It doesn't want to be seen naked.
That would be very embarrassing.
And it would be concerned, I think, if it were a person, that it would be ejected from its position of dominance at the table of consciousness, where it suddenly realized just how often this very clumsy masquerade is achieving primacy
and other vastly more important aspects of our humanity and intelligence and awareness and consciousness and memory and thought, perspective.
I think it's terrified that it would be subject to its own justice, because the right hemisphere, as I understand it, the right cerebral hemisphere, it's not much of an accountant.
The left hemisphere, if we're going to crudely characterize these two, it's really into accounting.
It wants to count shit.
And it especially wants to count its own shit, the shit it does.
That's the shit that actually matters, the shit it does, that it counts, right?
All that other shit, that doesn't matter.
That's like, trivial.
When, in fact, the opposite is true.
Without all that, you know, without that 97% of the trivial underpinnings of biology and neurology and ambiguity and evolutionary, evolutionary,
in structuring and historical in structuring and a given lifetime, that little tiny fingertip that thinks it's God wouldn't even be able to move.
So, we have this problem as humans, and it's a very, very difficult problem.
And I strongly agree with McGillchrist.
I just think he's right, that our supercultures and our groups, they are led primarily by a pretender, right?
A pretender who we don't want to vilify, but we need to dethrone.
We don't have to eject the pretender from the table.
We have to put it in places where its skills are best and most reasonably employed,
and remove it from places where its skills do not belong.
For example, in determining whether altruistic behavior is valuable or not.
The sort of left hemispheric argument is nature's competition, successful fitness equals successful competition, wipe out your opponents, you win.
That gets everybody dead because your opponents turn out to be organs in your own body.
And there's only one body around here, life.
So, the idea that we're separate from that is a left hemispheric-like construct, and it's a deadly construct.
It won't just get us killed, it'll get everything killed if we keep playing the game that way.
My point here, however, is that since yesterday, here are some pipeline swallowtail larva on an actual pipeline plant.
Or maybe, I don't know, that could be a Burberry plant.
It has what looks like Burberry's on it.
Or maybe the pipe, oh, I see the pipe vine is wrapped around the Burberry.
Okay, I get it.
Disambiguation, crazy stuff that.
And for those of you who haven't already seen this,
here's a chrysalis of one of those caterpillars,
and right here is the skin of one whose chrysalis probably fell off or was removed by a human.
To return to the vector of my concern,
people are sharing on social media, they're arguing.
And they're arguing about things like, is our president an idiot?
I mean, that's like arguing whether the sun is warm or not.
Yes, our president is an idiot.
Is he also adept at the kind of idiocy he's a professional at?
Yes, he is.
That's the kind of president that might get everyone killed.
And will certainly get a lot of people killed, and may even decide that that's a virtue.
Never before in history has there been a president who could lie through his fucking teeth in the way this guy does, and get away with it.
And it's astonishing, unless you understand how it came about.
It's not my intention to elaborate on that history, as I have done in previous videos.
They're arguing about things like, is the president good or bad?
Is there such a thing as the coronavirus or is it a hoax?
Was the lockdown a good idea or a bad idea?
And in fact, the idea of a lockdown is nothing like what happened.
What happened was more reasonably disambiguated in languages, social distancing.
No one was locked down.
A lockdown is the thing that happens in a prison, where you're not allowed out of your cell.
That's not what happened to us.
That is inflammatory language employed by the media to foment outrage, anger, fear, and disoriented fragmentation of our population.
Our, meaning the United States population.
Should we wear masks or not?
How deadly is the virus?
Should we even be concerned about it?
And I have perspectives on all these things, but it's not my goal here to promote them.
Instead, what I'm going to try to talk about is why all of this behavior is a smoke screen.
And it's not an intentional smoke screen on the part of the people engaging in it, although there are actors engaging in it intentionally for purposes that are nefarious.
The problem, it's a smoke screen because it's distracting us from urgently necessary thought, disambiguation, analysis, reason, rationality, and action.
That's what we do together with and for each other.
And when we're not doing that, if we're doing something other than that, we have lost our compass, right?
And we've become disoriented, and now we're going to attack ourselves and each other.
I mean, you could imagine if I owned hand, right? It started attacking me, right?
And I suddenly, I don't understand it, right?
And there are situations in which things like that occur.
For example, people who've had a commissurotomy where their corpus callosum has been severed so that they don't have epileptic fits, right?
They'll go to sort of select some pants with their right hand, and the left hand will grab, you know, the right hand and then try to attack it and blah, blah, blah, right?
And this is the kind of thing, the corpus callosum of our society, it sort of doesn't exist anymore.
The thing that connects the different aspects, right?
And also distinguishes them so that if one of them goes nuts or an electrical storm starts in one of them, it doesn't spread to all of them.
We need both connection and distinguishing.
A bird needs two wings.
There's a reason why bilaterally symmetrical organisms have two hemispheres.
A reason, that's not true, there's not a reason.
Reasons are things humans make up in language.
There is purposive intelligence in the fact that bilaterally symmetrical organisms generally have two brain hemispheres, though there are organisms like dolphins that appear to have three, or at least three major lobes.
So my point here is, the common people have become confused, they never were very unified to begin with, most of them are extremely poorly educated.
The few exceptions, even on the left, are not particularly good at fomenting unity, whereas the relatively ignorant and demonstrably selfish,
constituents of the right are quite good comparatively at producing a unified front.
So if the left is the intelligent aspect, and the right is the selfish aspect, right now the selfish aspect is winning.
And that's a crisis, but that's not my point, my point is this.
When we circulate media on the internet, we are failing, we're not convincing anyone of anything.
You share all the graphs and statistics and arguments and rationales you want, you're not going to change people's minds.
I mean, if there's a thousand people, you might change three of them, but you're going to have nearly no effect, and here's why.
What's going on isn't an attempt to learn, it's an attempt to declare.
And so what has happened is that the population of our nation, at least, and other nations, has fragmented into little religions of opinion.
And the purpose of those religions is not to understand phenomenon or be intelligent or learn, it's to tell us from them.
It's to tell who's on my side, which extended body do I belong with, and how do I recognize others that belong with us?
And how do I figure out what to do about them?
So that has nothing to do with learning, or intelligence, or disambiguation, or rationally understanding phenomenon, or predicting futures, or recognizing threats and opportunities.
It has to do with war, it has to do with hatred, it has to do with anger, with fear, outrage, violence.
It has to do with the emotions that, well, we can't get rid of them, don't exactly elevate our intelligence.
When I am afraid, I am dumber. When I am stressed, I am dumber.
If I think I'm surrounded by enemies, I get dumber.
And when I get dumber, I make poor decisions over time.
I take risks that otherwise I would not take.
It doesn't help me.
It doesn't help me, right?
Now, that doesn't mean those emotions don't have useful aspects.
There's reasons why they are conserved, evolutionarily, in the history and development of human consciousness and experience.
It's going to be a lot of wind for a minute.
So what's going on online is not a conversation.
It's not even an argument. It's war.
People are trying to punch each other into submission to their perspective.
And that has nothing to do with learning.
That's a domination game.
Now, let me explain, let me take a moment and frame for us what would be required to transform that.
One of the reasons why no one is going to listen to your statistics or your graphs or your declarations about, you know, this is a hoax or that's a threat.
No one is going to listen to any of that except the people who are already convinced of it and they are going to applaud you, right?
Because they are going to say, oh, that person is part of us, right?
And the people who aren't going to listen are going to attack you because they are going to say, oh, that person is part of them.
What actually happens if we want to learn is that first, we don't force people into learning.
You can't threaten people into understanding, right?
I mean, it's not that you let it's impossible.
It's that generally speaking, it won't succeed. It'll backfire.
And what you'll get is greater fragmentation, greater opinionation, greater clinging to ideological religions and so on.
I'm just kind of taking a look at something here.
A long time ago, some plants were planted in this area and I'm trying to see how many of them are still growing.
There's all these little flags, see?
And those flags show where I think pipe vine was planted.
But I don't see too many examples of successful plants.
Maybe they didn't get watered probably because of the pandemic.
If we want to learn together and we want to be intelligent and we want to use the power of multiple minds to magnify our insight and capacity to learn and to see and to grow and to progress,
we have to establish contexts that are fundamentally intelligent, promote that, reward it, encourage it,
and also allow us the decompressive, the sort of the space in which to open up, right?
Most of the time, a lot of us are going to be really compressed because of the contexts in which we are used to engaging in what we call discussion, but what is usually argument.
So we need a place where we are encouraged to decompress and open up, release that tension, to explore, to grow and learn and discover better positions and perspectives,
more reliable positions and perspectives, more mutually beneficial positions and perspectives than would otherwise obtain in contexts that either don't support that or specifically oppose it.
