Hey everybody, it's kind of funny how I start my videos right? I greet everybody. Of course
I have no idea. Really, I know one or two of the people who occasionally pay attention
to my videos. Well, maybe I know 5 or 6 or 10 or something. I know some number of them.
So I just greet everybody. I make a general hello. And, you know, I'm really grateful
to the people who watch my videos, not because I profit. As most of you are aware, I don't
allow advertising on my videos. Advertising is actually something I despise morally, ethically,
aesthetically, intellectually, viscerally. It's one of the... but I'm sort of grateful to it in some
ways. It's instructed me what to avoid in many cases. But yeah, I think advertising is one of
the terrifying evils of our modern age. Of course, there are thousands, and I'm not sure
exactly how high up on the chart advertising is. I am once more in the botanical gardens and the
children's garden. And I've noticed a number of bug type insects. A bug is a particular,
although we use it as a general term for insects, it's a particular sort of class of insect forms.
And I've noticed some on the pavement. When I'm not making videos anyway, I'm less good at it
when I'm making videos because I can't easily pay close attention to my footfalls. As I discovered
a little while ago when I stepped right onto a yellow jacket nest, I can't as easily pay attention
to both my footfalls and the camera, which is inside my... a thing we oxymoronically refer to as
a smartphone, something that actually makes us dumber. And this is a common human foible. We
don't notice when we get things like backwards is close enough to forwards that we're willing to go
along with it. Of course, the idea wasn't really that the phone would make us smarter. And originally,
it was called a cell phone due to, although that's even more terrifying. And there is, you know,
there's something going on here with us and how we name things that ordinary people are not aware
of. Schizophrenics are too aware of and creatively minded people find remarkable and perhaps non-toxically
fascinating. Whereas the schizophrenic fascination, wow, this old owl pellet. Oh, wait, that's not
the owl pellet. That's actually... wow, that's really interesting. So I know the origin of this
stain here. And it's more than six months old. This is where most likely a coyote vomited up the
coyote version of a owl or raptor pellet. I'm going to show you one of these bug creatures that
I'm talking about. I've noticed that they have much better eyesight than one might suppose. In any
case, the schizophrenic, the schizophrenic for mind and mind, and we should be aware that all of us
have some degree. You know, we're all slightly Asperger's-y or bipolar and that we have, you know,
mood cycles and schizophrenic in that detail can replace the gestalt and suddenly leap out to
us as the most important thing. And we can find so much detail that the detail starts to look
a supernaturally connotated cabbage moth, I think. One of the amazing things about those creatures,
if you get to look at them while they're relaxed in flight, is that the black spots on their
wings will compose what I believe is called a lemniscate or the infinity symbol when they are
fluttering slowly enough for you to track this. Huh. Now, this is another similar thing,
but it's the one I showed you previously that I remember seeing when it was fresh because I know
where it was. And of course, one of the things where I got started here was that it's harder for
me to pay attention to my footfalls. And I tend to, you know, I'll scan the upper what I'll call
the high terrains or the birds and the flying creatures are, but I tend to be careful about
where I put my feet because I don't want to kill tiny organisms like ants and things. I'm not a
Janist. Here is a very speedy little hunting spider that has just noticed me. You probably saw it jump.
And even though as I am getting older, my eyesight is degrading and I'm having trouble reading things.
It used to be like my eyes were like magnifying glasses compared to what I have these days.
I could see very tiny detail, but I'm still quite good at picking out the signs of organism in the
terrain that I am walking, except when I'm following my smartphone. Now, a schizophrenic mind would be
very concerned that cell phones affect our cells. I, though not formally schizophrenic,
I have what some friends of mine and I are calling phrenic states, which are states we
ascribe to people who are capable of deep intellectual prodigy in part because they are
capable of abstracting themselves from the context they're in and sort of orbiting, right,
satellite like a library or constellation of ideas and perspectives and subjects and
relationships. And my friend who is working on a theory and perhaps may well write a book
is arguing. He went looking for a chink in the armor of Ian McGilchrist, one of my heroes,
because I was already writing about the topics that Ian eventually wrote a vast and brilliant
tome on in his book, The Master and His Emissary, The Divided Mind and The Making of the Western
World, if I've got the subtext correct. And my friend Dr. Baru really hated this book,
and part of why he hated it is because we'd been having a long-standing argument and I was
arguing Ian's perspective, which is essentially that our cultures are the shadows, the lethal and
deadly shadows of the left cerebral hemisphere's inclinations when divided from the balancing
aspect of the right hemisphere. Of course, unfortunately for us, the right hemisphere is
primarily apparently active or most active when we are asleep and dreaming. And the left
hemisphere can kind of clamp down on consciousness while we are awake and sort of take over the
helm of the ship, so to speak. Now, this is a very complex topic and lilacs are here. And that's
an example of switching back and forth between the intellect and what's going on right here.
In any case, my friend Kevin wants to argue that, you know, what we're going to provisionally refer
to as frenias or phrenic minds are responsible for many of what we consider to be the finest
advancements in human technology and culture and that those he's going to argue are what are
going to save us from the current situation we're in. This is an old argument. It's one we've all
heard before. I was inundated with it as a child and believed it. It was a religion. It was a thought
religion and the religion was that as we, you know, advance technologically, what we're going to do
is we're going to no longer need to enslave everybody to make consumer goods. Machines are
going to do that and we're going to solve war and we're going to eliminate disease and we'll get
to live in utopias. And while my friend Kevin's vision isn't quite so Disney-esque and by the way
Disney was one of the purveyors of this vision. Back when I was a kid, Tomorrowland was a big
deal and we were told, you know, we're going to look, we're going to not need to fight wars. We'll
be able to unite humanity in a noble, intelligent society and we'll be able to, you know, preserve
the environment and eliminate disease and have incredible education. What we got was the opposite
of all that stuff. That program was delusional and it's, I think, more delusional now than it ever
was. To make that argument circa 2020 is to be so blind as to miss the sun or really maybe
something more like the opposite of the sun. The gaping black hole of insane, disembodied
metacollectives and little groups and corporations and shit that are ripping the history and future
of life on earth to shreds along with whatever potentials for human intelligence might exist
at the group level. Now interestingly at the individual level, we have astonishing examples
of actual advancement. I was just listening to one of them, someone I find rather annoying,
slightly annoying, actually is a better phrase, because he has pet, I mean, I do too,
just to come clean, but his particular pet, well, now here's a very similar, it's not the same,
spider. Nope, it's not the same. It's just really fast like the other one. The other one had really
long forelegs. This guy has very well preserved pet and like and middies. And some of them are
entirely valid, but they are usually very personal to him. And this is both cool and weird. I'm kind
of similar. And maybe I just don't see my own, maybe I don't see my own reflection as easily as I
can see his, but I was listening to Eric Weinstein, and I'm not much of a spectator. So I don't listen
to a lot of things or watch things. Passive entertainment is really tough for me. When I'm
walking, I can deeply enjoy listening to podcasts. And I've just, because I've been very, for like
the past 20 years, I've avoided smartphones and cell phones like the plague. And even once I got one, I
avoided taking one outside with me or using it when I was outside at all until pretty recently. So I've
been listening to Weinstein's podcast, The Portal, and it's, for me, it's one of the juiciest passive
listening experiences I've ever had. Because he and his guests are absolutely brilliant, whether or
not I agree with their concerns or the direction of the conversation or anything. I learned so much
every time I listened to him. I love his vocabulary. He's so articulate. He's so broadly, deeply
educated, that I've never really come across anyone quite like him, even though I've known a few very
intelligent people, and I've been accused of being very intelligent myself on occasion. But to go back to the
topic I was starting out with, my friend Kevin, he's got this theory that he wants to attack Ian
McGilchrist's theory with. And McGilchrist's theory is that the helper, right, has overcome its own
origin, the rightful sovereign to the throne of human consciousness and social glue, coherence, the sort of the
emissary of the mind, the little part, the intellectual abstract, the guy who does abstraction
really well, the girl who does abstraction really well, has overcome and dominated and thus large
and largely subjugated and submerged the aspects of our essence and humanity and organismal nature that
must and are the rightful sovereigns of the, if we think of it as a kingdom of the throne of
consciousness, right? And this is why we have all the problems in our society. This is one of the
fundamental roots of the problems that we suffer. And I agree with him. And ancient cultures were aware of
this, the story of Cain and Abel is a story about this. There are indigenous stories about two brothers
that are very similar. Although in some cases, the Cain-like brother, left hemisphere-like brother, does not
kill its brother, they become allies. And I'm not going to go into the lateralization discussion, which I
often do. I'm just going to say that my friend's theory is that the sort of phrenic state that are
modernity is in part the result of and properly beholden to this very domination, this rather
factual domination that McGillchrist argues is toxic and catastrophic, and that without it, we'd have
never made, we wouldn't have computers and atomic bombs and smartphones and cell phones and radio waves and
all these things. And my friend seems to think that that would be a terrible tragedy. I don't, because
these things here are so far advanced beyond our machines that we will never catch up to their
complexity or intelligence ever. It's unlikely we'll ever, our species will ever be able to compose a
computer capable of a full-scale simulation of anything like the activities at the surface of an
animal cell on the atomic level. Right now, just to do the molecular level accurately, like to get
everything in there, would probably require more computing power than we've ever employed thus far.
Abstractions and technologies are not organisms. They're not intelligent. They are not, they do not
learn. They are objects. And they compete against the capacity for humans to survive and be intelligent,
at least to the degree that they appear to support and entitle our convenience. And I was thinking,
before I began this video today, I was thinking about topics that I had a couple in mind. But before I
lose my train of thought here, which I sometimes do, I personally am very concerned about the idea of
electrosmog. The schizophrenic concern that the cell phones are actually somehow employing our cells in a
mechanical, you know, in a mechanically dominated process is something I'm concerned about. And some
people will say, well, Darren, you just don't understand radio waves in a sophisticated enough way to
realize that they're not affecting your cells at all. And I will say to that person, is it not possible that you
don't understand the peculiar electromagnetic dependencies of the cell surface in protein formation? And oh
wow, the Golden Gate Bridge is making the doom sound again today. I thought perhaps they had repaired it,
but they haven't. So we have this apocalyptic hum in the background, when the wind blows apparently from the
west, and it's extremely science fiction-y. And that's an interesting coincidence, right? Because here I am
talking about, you know, problems with technology and the kind of left cerebral hemisphere-led
domination. But yeah, I would just argue that is it not possible that maybe we're both right? Because it's
certainly true that I don't understand radio wave transmission well. I don't understand what it takes to
penetrate the skin or affect cells. But what I know about our research is that we tend to just kind of gloss
over dangers in order to acquire the capacity to deploy technologies and thus profit from them. And that is
catastrophically stupid and gets us in trouble over and over and over again. And by the way, in a previous
video I think I mispronounced glycephate. I think it's actually pronounced glyphosate. And it isn't from Dow
Chemical, it's from Monsanto. One of my viewers mentioned this to me. And I like to correct, I like to be
corrected. I don't want to remain ignorant or make mistakes that I can't go back and, you know, learn from
or reframe. I don't know if you can hear it, but there's like this Tibetan bell sound that dominates the city
for miles, right? Because they added stabilizers to the bridge, but they didn't test them for their susceptibility to
produce standing wave vibrations in wind. And this is exactly the topic that I'm on right here with the radio waves
in ourselves. We don't sufficiently understand biology to be clear about what is harmful or not, except in a relatively, to
some relatively crude degree. And by relatively crude, I don't mean so crude that we can't make rational decisions. I do
mean so crude that we're bound to make terrible mistakes. And whether electrosmog is one of those or not, you know, remains to be
disambiguated. Unfortunately, we don't want to be the guinea pigs that, you know, produce the disambiguation. And one of the things
that's going on right now in our common popular culture is that there are a number of people who are claiming that what we are
calling the novel coronavirus and many of its consequences are actually the results of environmental toxicification,
electrosmog, and similar kinds of things. So they're saying it's not a virus, it's an environmental syndrome.
Now, it's weird how difficult it is to tease apart these two things, because there certainly is a viral pathogen.
But the origin of that pathogen is, in a sense, precisely the thing that the people who are arguing there isn't one,
well, not precisely. It qualifies, right, as an environmental, as a result of human environmental misbehavior,
catastrophically, you know, rapacious, malignant misbehavior over decades, right, at least, that we've been wiping out the
megafauna for thousands, tens of thousands of years. Wow, the bridge is really ringing. It's really intensely ringing.
So, probably there's truth to both things, although we can associate causal validity to a specific array of, you know,
pathologies in humans, we can associate those directly with a virus at the moment.
So far as we are able to understand, because we can't ourselves tell the difference, we depend on experts to tell us the difference.
We don't have electron microscopes in our house, it would probably be kind of scary if we did.
And most of us are not trained epidemiologists or virologists or even doctors or nurses.
So we depend on classes of, you know, people that our society has endowed with skill sets and equipment to tell us what's going on.
We can't, we don't have first hand access to the truth or the information or causes, right.
And certainly, there are environmental, there are features of the collapse of the biorelational environment on Earth caused by humans, right, anthropogenic ecological catastrophe and change,
that we are subject to the repercussions of. In fact, I would argue we are subject to the repercussions of all of those phenomenon.
However, so we have here are two different phenomenon, right.
We have the sudden emergence of a pathogen and I am going to predict that it will be discovered that that pathogen did not first emerge in China in 2019.
I'm going to predict that pathogen first emerged elsewhere, possibly as early as mid-2018.
And I will happily correct my position if the future shows me to be wrong.
But one of the things that goes on between humans and nature is that we don't catch up, right.
Our ideas and knowledge, it never catches up. Nature is a trillion years ahead of us to put it mildly.
You might think that's an exaggeration. You'll say, well, the universe isn't even that old.
Yes, well, there are other ways of thinking about time than those the humans are commonly comfortable with.
And some of those methods are very important to understand.
If you want to understand what's going on with organisms that make structures like this.
A structure that may well resemble or be an excellent analogy for states of mind.
Consciousness, awareness, memory, dreaming, experience, enthusiasm, insight, awakening, creativity.
So I am concerned about, well, concerned is the wrong word.
I am certain that while there have been astonishing advancements in technology,
and understanding and science and art, the cost is far too high.
And most of it doesn't look like progress. It looks like something that mimics progress while delivering atrocity.
If progress means more sophisticated technology, we can check that box.
If progress means more intelligent societies, we got it backwards.
Because what we're getting are societies that are actually growing more blind as our technologies and disoriented as our technologies advance.
Which is something we might expect if, for example, being buried in mechanically produced radio waves 24-7-365 isn't a good idea for organisms.
Which seems pretty fucking likely to me.
I've seen people attempt to make solid arguments against this concern, and some of them were convincing.
I still don't believe it.
So I have a pet, you know, I have a pet anguish, a pet concern, myself.
Much like I accused Eric of having. And I will admit it.
But I'd love to listen to this show. It's just, it's like vitamins for my vocabulary and my memory and my intellect and my ability to think about ideas.
It's really a wonderful thing and it seeded, it often seeds my videos as I sometimes listen to it before making them.
But it seeded my video today in a number of particular ways.
He was speaking with an economist and he himself is extremely well educated in economics.
And at the beginning of the program, he said something like, let's set the topic to the apocalypse.
And his guest said, I mean they had a complex conversation that I'm going to condense very clumsily.
But essentially his guest said, if we knew that the span of time of life was eternal, that there was no, you know, set end point or likely catastrophe.
