And social media is a context that specifically opposes it. Let's be clear.
People keep wondering why I keep telling people blah, blah, blah on social media and nothing happens. This is why.
It's because we didn't do the groundwork, right? We didn't start out by establishing the kinds of agreements and mutual concern and awareness that would empower the possibility of us learning together rather than fighting each other.
And until and unless we establish contexts like this, until we are intelligent enough to understand that we have to sit down together and agree first to establish a healthy, intelligent context in which we can be heard, right?
And we can open up, we can decompress, we can feel safe, supported, nurtured, recognized.
And we also have the agreement to pay attention to the most reliable information that we can acquire and to learn together how to determine whether information is reliable or whether it is masquerading as reliable for some purpose, which we can by rendering transparent defeat.
That's what has to happen if we want to have an intelligent conversation together where our minds transform toward more intelligent, more rational, more creatively trustworthy living perspectives and associations.
And that's what's not happening yet. Much.
Where that happens, if you try it even with two people, you will immediately see a dramatic difference in the behavior of those people.
But first, we have to agree, right?
We have to take the time to forge the context that allows for something resembling communication rather than something that resembles war but masquerades as a conversation or communication.
And that's most of what's going on on the internet.
So hopefully, that perspective will be useful to you and maybe those you care about, because instead of starting out with an argument, well, I think such and such is so.
We can ask a question.
Shall we today decide to set down our weapons and opinions and pet perspectives for the sake of discovery, mutual benefit, learning, growth, understanding, and something actually resembling progress?
There's a lot of assets for us to receive if we're willing to make that agreement.
We're going to be spending a lot of assets for nearly no progress if we don't.
So let's take the time together to establish the agreements that underlie the possibility of intelligent progress and conversation and mutual insight and awakening.
Let's learn together how to create contexts like that rather than to submit to the extreme, to the sort of piratical, right, the pirate contexts like Facebook and Instagram and Twitter that benefit when the opposite happens.
And boy, do they benefit.
The cash register rings a million times a second as long as we keep fighting and that money is not going into our pockets.
My fellow country folk, it's going into the pockets of pirates.
And hopefully we can change that too.
But let's start with learning how to have conversations that matter within for each other and the history and future of life on Earth.
Thanks for joining me.
Thanks for agreeing to learn together with me.
Bye-bye for now.
Thank you.
