So you, you're at the museum, they hand you down the stone pipe, you touch, just as you're starting to reach for it, you realize this isn't a smoking pipe.
Yeah, I know what it is.
Yeah, you know what I recognize it.
I recognize it just at the point where I'm touching it.
Yeah.
And it almost knocks me to the ground.
Like, I don't know. I've had no comparable experience except for one other artifact that I touched in the museum later that maybe we'll get to further point, but this was the most intensive this kind of thing.
And it really felt like I was being just
like, I don't know.
I was being put to sleep.
Electrically, in a weird way.
And
I resisted it enough to put the pipe that I think if I had held on to it, even a fraction of a second later I'd have been on the ground, you know, like I just barely managed to put that pipe down
without passing out.
And then I immediately had the worst kind of flu and cold symptoms like flood me in the next five minutes.
Wow, that I had to bow out for the day.
Like leave the museum.
Go to my hotel.
And I slept for, I think at 14 hours.
And woke up okay again.
But it was the most bizarre thing.
The Hoopa, the Hoopa ended up loving it.
You know, of course, I reported it later to them, like we visited Harvard, photographed all of their stuff, and most of the stuff that they wanted out is like their, their whole tradition is very like it's different from the black foot by a long shot
They really surprised me. Like I'm from the West Coast. I grew up in western Oregon.
And the Hoopa are in this little valley called Trinity Valley.
Northern Northern California by Eureka Eureka area, kind of, you know, Redwood area.
And their, their Trinity River spills into the what?
Klamath.
That goes into the ocean.
And what's very interesting there is that where the Trinity River meets the Klamath.
Right. It gives you a T intersection.
The Hoopa is on the Trinity River, which is just like a mile and a half long, and that's their whole territory.
It's maybe maybe a mile and a half wide and a mile and a half long or something like that. Wow, very short thing. Okay.
The Hoopa are there.
When they hit the T upstream from the T is Karuk.
And downstream is Europe.
And the downstream feeds into the ocean. Right. So you're connected to the ocean.
But those three tribes, the Hoopa and the Karuk and the Europe.
They have entirely different languages from entirely different language families.
But practice the exact same cultural complex and ceremonies, and all of that stuff.
This is, this is one of the cases that friends Boas, the first American anthropologist used to try to disprove that there is any connection between culture, language and race.
In any case, they surprised me because they're, they still got a lot of their culture.
They still got their language. They still got their ceremonies.
I experienced magic in Hoopa Valley, like serious magic, you know.
And, um, yeah, it's, it's something else. And they're very different.
Like in the old Blackfoot stories, way, way back in not the era, which is like the earliest Blackfoot stories, maybe 12,000 plus years ago, the men and the women lived in separate camps.
You know, and there's a, there's a story and a place here called Akipisk on the women's buffalo jump where it took place, where, where the men and women finally came together to like, to live together here.
But before that, men and women had lived in separate camps and basically women had prepubescent boys with them, you know.
But then once they hit puberty, they'd go to the men's camp.
And it's, it's following, you know, kind of like ungulate type of knowledge.
Here, like the deer, in the Hoopa, it's the deer.
I think here was the bison, you know, but in the Hoopa is the deer, for sure.
And there's a time when the deer get together for the rut.
And that was the only time of year where the men and women could like live together.
And so if you were not born basically as a tourist, like April into May, you are considered illegitimate child in the Hoopa.
Ah, I see.
You are not conceived when men and women are supposed to be together.
Right.
And that's kind of still the case there.
Even though, even though they still, like they, like they live now, men, like people live with their spouses and all that jazz, you know.
My experience there was that the men are very effeminate and the women are very, you know, butchy.
And it's, it's a, it's a different kind.
And they're still like kind of talking about that stuff and in that mind zone, you know, like.
Yes, yes.
It's their way of life.
It's their way of life.
It is preserved. It's still going on.
And we went into their old villages, like the old pit houses and stuff where they still do their ceremonies and things.
They are very important features that have gone missing from the like official, like, like if you look at pictures of those villages at the turn of the century,
compared to pictures of the villages in the 1950s or 60s, you're going to see really important things are missing.
Those things are still there. They're just like, they're just hit.
They're there. They're all there. Everything is, everything is still there.
And there's weird things that can go on there.
Yeah, that gives us a good lead in for another chapter.
I, I just feel so grateful to be able to be with you tonight and hear these stories.
It is crazy. I don't know. I don't even, it's, it's weird to be retelling them because
it seems so fantastic, a lot of it now, you know, and I'm just like regular
blood Indian desperate and let's bridge, you know.
Yes, well, they were, they were glorious. They're glorious moments that live on.
Still.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's all still part of part of the whole.
Like those are history that have made major ripples. Like what we did, bringing that stuff back
has changed account like it's hard to even imagine how much has changed the community and the people, you know,
a lot.
Education is totally different.
I mean, as a result.
Thank you so much for sharing these. I hope we'll get to continue in a very, you know,
nearby moment in the recording here, we can keep talking.
Thank you for sharing all this time. So you bet.
So grateful.
You bet.
