Hey everybody. Thanks for joining me. This will be a slightly unusual recording in that
going out for a walk to get some exercise. And it's night time so probably won't help
you to see what the camera can capture of that. And I prefer not to be holding my phone so I'm
just gonna do a recording on the headset mic. And I'm not sure how that will work out. There
might be a lot of noise. There might be occasional noise. We'll see how it goes. And then lastly,
I'm gonna be walking up a series of fairly steep hills. One of them's about a half a mile long.
So you're gonna hear a lot of my breathing. And there's not too much I can do about that. But as
long as you're okay with with those variables, I'm fine with them too. And my mind is kind of awake
at the moment. So I thought it would be nice to explore some of the things that are floating
around on the surface. And I guess I'll start with some stuff that wasn't actually on my mind
until I started thinking about talking. And I felt a little nervous, which isn't uncommon for me.
You know, when when people are sick or injured, we can see it pretty clearly. A lot of the time,
not always. A lot of people's a lot of the pain that people we encounter, a lot of the pain they
feel. It's hidden from us. And there's all kinds of strange social garbage in our anti cultures
that makes it not safe to show our pain. It's a bunch of traditional crap, and sort of little
social psychopathologies that get enacted as trends in in the supermarket of human. Well,
the relations that happen in the structured aspects of our culture in the, like there's
different part of the problem that I'm having trying to talk about this is that the idea of a
society is too simple and too general an idea really isn't any such thing. So I'm trying to refer
to the layer of human behavior, roles, which can be momentary, rules, habits, trends, stuff that's
seen as cool, or intelligent or appropriate. And for most of us, I think most of the societal
aspects we will encounter, they're like the fast food, or maybe even something worse, the plastic
food of our human social potentials. And even the stuff we will do together, when we have a context
that nurtures and rewards and supports or at least doesn't attack us, right, for, for being and learning
and growing, which certainly means making mistakes, and probably means being hurt, sick, confused, broken,
alone, especially when so very few, so tragically few of the contexts we will encounter are authentic
enough to have the kind of spaciousness in terms of depth, and diverse opportunities for role, and
learning and skill, acquisition and action and sharing. So even when we do encounter contexts that
somewhat support that, many of them either started out pre compromised or become compromised over time
as they contend with the cultures in which they exist, the supercultures, and might be thought of like
beautiful little islands, right, where some of the finest expressions and potentials of our humanity are at
least momentarily embodied. Because we choose people will come together and choose to do this together. And
there's lots of stuff that mimics that. In fact, it goes all the way from slight mimicry to abject mimicry to
ironic, you know, plastic garbage. So again, there's layers of authenticity and humanness. But for most of us, we're
going to find ourselves in context where we quickly will learn to hide. We will learn to buffer not merely our
pain and confusion and fear and anxiety, but also our creativity, our inspiration, our unique personhood and the
process, the inward process of learning that is personal to each of us. And yet has many communal aspects and is
ancient. It's really, really old. It's sold that the past 2000 years of human activity are like an eye blank in its age. And
each of us has this inside us. Rather, rather than use the container metaphor, our human forms and natures are in
actions of these intelligences. Some of them absolutely primordial. Some of them literally older than the age we think of
that's associated with the physical universe. Some of them related to our unique biology, our form, our organs, our bilateral
symmetry, our connected yet conflicted brain hemispheres, the cortex. So inside us, there's a process going on. And the process
is known only to us. And only in the rarest moments of deep communion with others, usually beloved others, but sometimes hated
others, are we likely to surface some of the content that we have to hide and buffer from the world. And that process is a
kind of torture, by the way. Well, the process of having to hide it is a kind of torture. And it's cruelly
inhibitive. It's viciously inhibitive. You know, essentially, much of what we may think about when we think of the idea of
rearing children is inhibiting them. Getting them to figure out what not to do. And that's an important thing to notice. And it's
not necessarily bad outright, or, you know, we can't make easy value judgments about it. But when you think about, when most of us,
many of us anyway, depending on what's going on, where we are, when we think about raising children, mostly we think about in in
language from my childhood, getting them to behave. And getting them to not misbehave. And that's a really bizarre polarity to embed
into child's consciousness. Some sorts of expressions of myself are not allowed. It's a very confusing idea. Now, again, we wouldn't
want to throw the idea away. But it probably needs a vastly more nuanced treatment than what it will tend to get in the
common, you know, if we pick someone off the street. Although, again, the field of humans is profoundly diverse. And there are these
little island paradises. Some of us become them. And sometimes we may only become them for a moment and then go back to being our
ordinary self, so to speak, or our, our inhibited self, let's say. But when I was talking about how the contexts sometimes put up these
little flowers, these little sort of paradisical tropical islands, right? Eventually, the pirates come. Someone comes from outside. And what I
mean is, even our most intimately formed pods and groups and collectives, families, tribes, the sort of poisonous, duplicitous,
representational culture leaks in and corrupts those little islands, much like, you know, any, any tropical island that was colonized by people we might refer to as Europeans or others.
So it's very difficult to sustain something authentic in a context and in contexts where the values and priorities are false or fictional. And when I, when I say
fictional, I don't mean we invented them. I mean, they're the kind of a fiction that a lie is. And some of those lives can look quite factual. Right?
It's really easy to form them in language. Darren is 140 pounds. Here's one. It's factual, if the measurement's correct. And the measurements are always, you know, they have a degree of error. But
there's no content in there. It's just accounting, right? How much meat is there? It doesn't help you. It doesn't tell you anything about me, really at all.
Fictions. So many of the attempts, some of them noble and good that humans make to create contexts,
in which it's possible for us to be who we are, to see and say and act and feel and move in the ways that are natural to us and feel, feel like ourselves.
Those contexts are hard to sustain in a broad field of competing, hungry, representational products, processes, institutions, companies.
And almost all of them will be infected with money. Money's the evil it's tough to defect from.
So what I was really thinking about was just how we can't see the pain of others. We can't see their suffering, their hidden from us in their houses, in their cars, at the grill, at the restaurant,
in the postman, in delivery drivers, in the soldiers, in the doctors, in the nurses. The pain is all hidden. And there's a lot of it. There are mountains and mountains of it in the human world.
And we don't see it. And so when we think about people in general, when we think about why doesn't this person understand or why are they behaving in some apparently insane way, sometimes there's a good reason for people to be behaving in an unexpected way.
And I don't mean reason in the sense of the ordinary logical idea. I mean there's a history that leads to the formation of purposes that lead to the necessity of their inaction for a person and sometimes a group of people.
Millions of people are suffering horribly right now. And some of them are old and sick. Or some of them are badly injured. Some of them have no medical care. Some of them have no homes. Some of them are so poor that a tablespoon of rice would be like a month's wages.
All over the world and inside every one of those people, without exception, there's a process going on whereby that person is developing. They are learning internally in the way that only an individual organism can.
Though they are not merely individual organisms and that learning is informed by the people around them, their culture, their language, the priorities and values of the people around them and so on.
But in the privacy of our own hearts where we think no mind shall intrude, of course we're now sort of in danger of having our interiority profiled by machines. And that's a really serious danger.
That's something we need to pay very close attention to and reject outright. Unless we're stuck with it, in which case we better use it very carefully and intelligently and with great reservation and concern.
Oh, the scent of these flowers. Incredible.
So, if someone is sick or injured, we might be able to visually tell. But when people are feeling pain emotionally and psychologically, we may understand that something's, you know, out of control.
Out of, how should we put it, that there's a conflict going on inside the person in their mind. And those conflicts can be very fraught and those are often the result of various kinds of long-term suffering that has gone unacknowledged, unaddressed or even blamed on the person's suffering.
Because this is one of the, you know, this is one of the cool modern moves, is to either pretend that the person is masquerading as suffering in order to gain quote-unquote attention, which, by the way, if someone was doing that, it might be fairly obvious that they're not receiving the beggar's share of attention that we each need to be human.
Unless, of course, you know, we're hermits or monks or something. But either, so either they're playing a game to get attention. And again, it's not that we want to throw the idea away, but we should be very suspicious of the way it often gets crudely employed.
Or, you know, they should be tougher. Right? Life is hard. Your life is hard. So, you know, toughen up. Or, you know, one of seven other popular bullshit moves that our culture trains us to make as children.
We begin to play with making these judgments and declaring them, asserting them in childhood, most of us. Some resist it, which is awesome and beautiful. And some of those people, you know, go on to help others resist it, which is even better, and look something a bit more like being human.
But in a competitive context, there's a lot of incentive to judge and demoralize and dominate and overcome others.
Most of us who are listening have deep experience of profound emotional suffering. And, yeah, there are different depths, lots of different depths, and it goes very, very deep. And there's also plenty of, you can have a lot of suffering if you just have enough sort of shallow superficial emotional suffering to keep you from being able to feel anything like your humanity or your depth at all.
Right? Suffering doesn't have to be terrible for it to be torture. And by torture, I mean lots of different things, but one of the things I clearly mean is to be deprived of the capacity for our inner developmental process, our self, our being,
to educate and develop and express itself throughout all of its life phases, and there are certainly more than four. And they don't necessarily happen in the same order for everyone, by the way.
So, yeah, it was just occurring to me as I was entertaining another topic. It suddenly occurred to me that what a terrible...
But since we cannot see the suffering of others, and we do not know from their interiority to our own what they've been through or going through, and if you've done any work at all in the sector that provides therapy for people of any kind,
you will immediately be divested of the standing illusion that the people around you are all okay. Because I'm not sure if any of them are okay. And many of them are suffering with burdens that would be extremely unlikely for any of us to imagine the pain of.
And part of what that pain is, and it's not the only part, is they are deprived of themselves. They're not merely deprived of meaningful social and relational and creative roles together.
They're deprived of their own interiority. They can no longer really feel that process of burgeoning, growing, learning, sensing, discovering, playing, knowing, loving, you know, interiority, right?
The place where the real stuff happens that nobody talks about because it's the thing that allows us to be able to talk. And we don't really know how to talk about that. But it's in there, in all of us.
When we say we love someone, part of what we mean is we love that. We love the invisibles of them. Their invisibles are beautiful and, in many cases anyway, it's the same as true if we love a plant or an animal or a living place.
It's not that we love the surface of them, though, you know, we might really like that too. It's that we love the invisibles of them. And this is the thing our language and our habits with our language is almost useless.
Well, we never discuss this. If you want to pretend there's no metaphysics and pretend there are no invisibles that are meaningful, you're going to be in a really strange position on move 2. And it's going to be a position that ends up looking a lot like a machine, I think, but maybe not necessarily.
Many of us carry scars and burdens, injuries and illnesses that are completely invisible to those around us. And those around us cannot much help us with them, with the exceptions that there are. And there are some.
And so most of the people we see are in pain and they may be in agony. And many of them are isolated even within their relationships and families and cultures and societies.
And this is, by the way, the primary origin of drug use, abuse, alcoholism, all these things. It comes from this one place. It comes from first people becoming isolated.
And they may have some role in that process, but the context is severe in its capacity to potentiate this, right?
The context is so well structured to potentiate loneliness and isolation that wealth will not protect you from it, right? And neither will fame, or what we think of as good fortune.
Now again, when we speak of the people in general, we're talking about such an incredibly deep and diverse population, right?
So there's all these little threads and streams of authenticity and beauty and creativity and some of them are momentary and some of them are lasting.
All of them are sort of being hunted by the sort of industrial, technological infrastructure that is something like the estranged shell of what humans might have become.
And I'm just going to let that if resonate.
If instead of this, we...
So the really deep tragedy, the really deep pain is to be isolated from one's own interiority, from our own inner process, from our relationship with ourself.
And it sounds like a weird thing like, well, how do I have a relationship with what is it?
Or do I have two me's?
I have the experiencing me and the relating me or something? I don't know.
But there is something like a relationship with oneself.
And to be deprived of this is agony.
You can be making $500,000 a month.
If you don't have this, you will be in agony.
And the common people who are not wealthy, it's easy enough to torture them with jobs and concerns and bizarre sociopolitical nonsense and language and bad ideas about important features of being human.
And the failure to embody those features together or enact them.
Or in fact even the standing practice of counterfeiting them, stealing them, counterfeiting them and then selling us back dead representations that are uninhabitable and divide us further from ourselves and each other.
Let that ring for a moment because that one statement is staggeringly profound when we understand it.
When we see that something in our collectivity or perhaps, and I think both perspectives are valuable,
there's something in our collectivity and we inherit it, right? It's not like we assembled this, we were born into it most of us, so we learn to normalize it, we think of it as ordinary and normal.
But there's something in our collectivity that is stealing something from our souls, representing that thing, counterfeiting it, selling it back to us as convenience or fashion or...
or necessity, right? Oh, this is how it has to be. Because life is hard and so on and so forth and there are bad people in the world and so on and so forth.
Weirdly, a lot of the bad people are the people who want us to be really worried about other bad people, but that's another topic.
It's wrong. All of this is terribly wrong and should never be this way even for one more minute. It should never have become this way.
It's anti-human, it's anti-organismal, it's anti-life, it's the opposite of being unsold beings, beings with an invisible essential interiority.
We can change the language, it doesn't have to be particularly metaphysical, we just need to realize there's a great big mystery swarming around in there
and we're not likely to dismiss it with mechanical descriptions, for it will never be encompassed by them, nor will it be encompassed by language.
And this is an old dream of an aspect of our humanity, right, to get a grip on the essential structure of what it means to be human.
And that imperative corrupts our intelligence.
Because it's inclined to evict anything it cannot encompass, reduce to a representation and manipulate in waking consciousness.
And trust me when I tell you that probably less than one percent of our humanity is of that ilk, but can be handled that way meaningfully.
Whatever we are, it's mostly mystery and it's invisible to our common ways of thinking and looking and evaluating.
It doesn't mean we can never explore it, we can and we must, we should.
But again, to do so requires either a profound act of personal will, which in some cases succeeds, or contexts that nurture and support us in that process.
And strangely, ironically, or, I don't know, anti-ironically, this conversation, and I call it a conversation because I know it will move the minds of those who listen to it.
So their invisible interiority will become somewhat involved, somehow involved, with mine.
I'm on the big hill now.
This conversation is a momentary emergence of the kind of context I'm describing.
And that's a very special kind of magic.
And I want to be clear that it's quite difficult to use language in this way.
And most of the time, if I manage to succeed, it's somehow I got lucky.
It's very difficult, it's much more difficult to plan to do that.
I've always stumbled into it when it happens.
And that's a grace.
And I think that grace is associated with having a selflessly noble purpose.
And I'm not claiming that I have no self-interest here.
But rather that I'm speaking about and to the heart of my people as all the people.
I'm speaking in an unusual position where I'm speaking for the unspoken interiority of all of the people and all of the living beings.
Because my heart is moved to.
Not because I want a dollar or I'm hoping someone will think this or that about me.
And all children carry within them imperatives.
Many of which are exquisite.
And most of which will be shut down for most of those children.
There are occasional exceptions, but often the exceptions pay a very high price for there.
For the, for embodying the unspoken interiority of our humanity.
So there are some things that to speak about them is to embody them together.
To consider them together deeply, actively, is to embody them.
Because they will, in so doing, we will transform our values, our priorities, and those values and priorities which we will reject.
And say, these are not human.
These values and priorities are not human.
And, you know, a critic will come along and say, well, plenty of humans enact them, so if they're not human, I don't, I don't know what is.
There are two different definitions of human.
One, you know, what do the prisoners do in the prison?
What's their behavior?
That's the critics position.
Two, or actually two, is the critics position.
The behavior of the humans in the, in the context that punish authenticity and incentivize, incentivize defection and counterfeiting and all of this stuff.
And of course, this is just one way of talking about it.
I'm not, I'm not saying we should take all of what I'm saying literally, but.
The first one is our, our interiority, right?
The, the priorities and values that are not entirely intrinsic until they become embodied in a human being, usually in childhood, but sometimes later.
Again, everyone, we have this map of development that presumes it goes one, two, three, four.
No, sometimes it goes four, one, two, three.
Humans are strange and our development is much different than what we imagine and there's multiple streams of it at all times.
And those streams are in different phases and under various kinds of pressures, they will shift phase.
Also under various kinds of opportunity, right?
The interiority, that interior process is extremely sensitive to threats and opportunities.
And so this is part of why contexts are so crucial.
You know, forming in a greed space together for the pursuit of our interiority and the expression and understanding and recognition together.
What that's all about, right?
Wow, what a crazy view.
It's night, way up on a steep hill.
And I can see the, hell I can see the airport and much of South San Francisco and places with other names.
So the critic is confused, right, because they're saying, look, humans are doing all this stuff. Why?
You don't think that's human?
No, I think that's standard behavior in prison-like anti-contexts.
Or at least it's common whether or not it's standard.
Others have said this, but it's very clear to me that many, if not most, forms of addiction are the result of isolation, deprivation,
both of meaningful roles in relationships with others.
And eventually, for many of us, the branches on the tree of our interiority keep getting cut off, cut off, cut off, inhibited.
Eventually they stop growing.
And it's a terrible agony.
Some of us are either somewhat well equipped or stumble into or chase down the capacity to re-establish meaningful interiority, play, creativity, wonder, learning, awe, reverence, joy, terror.
Anxiety doesn't necessarily disappear, but at least the salad's got some other components.
I think we may fail to realize just how profoundly disorienting isolation is for an animal as social, as innately social as our kind of animal.
And again, rather than me saying all people are this way, what I'm saying is each person is uniquely like this, some more than others in some ways and some less than others in some ways.
And we change over time and we change in circumstances and we change in context.
So, you know, many people who think, oh, you know, I'm not social, I don't like people.
It might really have a lot to do with just having had really bad experiences of counterfeit contexts in which cruelty was a consistent result of the behaviors of the group.
And not just cruelty, all kinds of other things, embedded ignorance, dominance, hierarchies, all kinds of crap.
And some of the things are, you know, are like plus sign things where someone's actively being vicious and some of the trouble is minus sign things where no one is being kind.
