So yeah, I think it just struck me before I left my house that I feel great sorrow for the modern people in general who are suffering and alone, injured or sick, elderly or rejected.
And even the common people in their nice cars and pretty houses, many of them are carrying pain, fear, shame.
Many of them are isolated even within their families. Many of them are isolated from themselves.
So, there's lots of really important material surrounding what I'm highlighting here.
And some of that material, in my view, relates very deeply to a fundamental polarity in our human nature.
And in my view, from my perspective, you know, when I choose to hold this one, I can hold others.
Polarity is really mythic in the sense that it's so primordial and nothing escapes its influence.
And although I'm going to speak in a relatively binary fashion, I'll talk about.
Perhaps I'll use the waking mind, dreaming mind analogy, but it's not a very good one. I need a better one.
One of the aspects of ourselves wants graspable, predictable structure.
And the other aspect of ourselves is very interested in flow and developmental efflorescence blossoming.
And for the one that likes structure, for the aspect that likes structure, blossoming is more structure.
It's winning for that one.
The other one doesn't care much about competitions, I don't think.
It could be wrong, but I doubt it.
From what I know of its character, it's not that it won't show up to compete in meaningful ways,
but it's very skeptical of zero-sum games and stuff that ends in hard structure.
Because it knows those as prisons.
So there are these two aspects.
And of course, you know, there's seven aspects or there's 15.
But I'm going to generalize down to these two to keep it simple at the moment.
And this problem that we have with the counterfeiting and the cruelty and the isolation from ourselves
is one of the least things that I was turning my mind toward.
We're deeply related to this inner conflict.
And in the waking world, the structured one has the upper hand.
And our cultures are forged in the likeness of some of its least desirable qualities.
And those cultures are, in the words of Daniel Schmockenberger that I'm sure you didn't coin the phrase,
they're self-terminating.
Hi there. Hi. Hi.
One moment.
I didn't do them enough injustice. They're self and other-terminating.
They're world-terminating.
We used to be able to get away with them as a species because our populations were small.
The Earth was large in comparison.
So we could pretend that we could just, the Earth could absorb infinite damage and so could we.
Both. And this is a common myth of the structured aspect.
The Earth can absorb infinite damage and we aren't the Earth. We are separate from the Earth.
So we don't really have to worry about that.
Which, you know, if something like that happened biologically in our bodies, we wouldn't live for more than a few seconds.
If one of our organs decided it was just going to eat all the others and package them up in little plastic boxes and, you know, we wouldn't get very far at all.
But the Earth was vast. And humans were still young in number.
Which in a way is also young in time, but I can't have time to explain that idea at the moment.
So we live in what is very much like a myth.
And there's different ways to frame the myth.
And we might use different ways for different purposes to highlight different facets of the situation.
Our situation, our nature.
That we both are born into in the sense of a vast amount of inheritance genetically and from lineages and lineages of living beings and with language and culture and so on.
We have all these inheritances.
But some of the, some of our assets are innate and unique to each person.
You know, someone will have a particular sensitivity for living things, living beings, creatures.
Someone else will not, but may be profoundly well suited to work on engines or computers or in mathematics or physics.
Diversity is one of our most astonishing features as an animal.
And we keep inventing new branches into which we can diversify.
Unfortunately, most of them are co-opted from the get, you know, from the outset.
But not all of them.
So there's this myth playing out.
One of the only people I've come across who's got a beautiful way and a very intelligent way of eliminating this is Ian McGillchrist.
In his book, The Master and His Emissary, I think the subtitle is The Divided Brain in the Making of the Western World.
And we don't have to believe everything McGillchrist says,
but we should very carefully attend his perspective about the two aspects.
And again, there's not just two, but we're simplifying.
It's interesting that we have to actually go to sleep for one of them to wake up most of the time.
The flowing one, the water child.
It's almost as if there's the water child and the object child.
The object child wants everything structured, orderly, manipulable.
And as we should realize our invisible interiority, you'll have to kill us to get it to do that.
It's not going to do that.
It's not like that.
Its nature is different from that.
And I think part of the agony, part of the pain and the suffering that we feel in isolation from others and ourselves is too much dead structure.
It's not meaningful to have possessions when we don't have relationships.
See, this is the problem in a nutshell.
Though there are those who can, how shall I put this?
There are those who can somewhat satisfy themselves with transactions.
Instead of relationships.
Oops, I'm going down the wrong street.
Well, let's see, there's a fiction in language, right?
That the street I'm going down is wrong.
Such tricky stuff.
Seems totally ordinary.
What I meant was that street won't lead me where I wish to go.
But it might have led me somewhere I needed to go, except that I turned around and I'll take the street I know.
See the problem?
I wonder what would happen if I went on that other street.
But habits and agendas, like my own, they affect the route we travel.
They affect our route selection and I'm going to bird walk for just a minute here and talk about this.
Because the dreaming mind, the water child, so to speak, is interested in adventure and wonder and learning.
But it's also, you know, it's got fears and concerns of its own.
They're not as formalized as the waking minds.
And it's much more flexible.
It's so much more flexible that it doesn't actually really care.
It seems to be oriented toward the invisible interiority of things rather than the superficial structure.
So that, for example, in a dream, I could see a man and know that was my sister.
And I might have a little bit of, you know, my waking consciousness, the metal child, the object child.
Might start to get a little bit antsy about that in the dream and say, like, that's really weird.
My sister doesn't usually look like that, but I know it's her anyway.
So the water child in us gets hurt badly by culture and everyone.
And there are artists and performers who speak for it and who embody it and enact it.
But we need the opportunity.
We don't need it represented back to us, though that can be inspiring and renewing in the right context.
It isn't always.
If we're just spectating, it's just going to be another transaction.
I went and saw the performance.
But if we become deeply engaged, then somehow the water child gets nourished while we are awake.
And that's a beautiful moment.
So you can see that the object child that likes language and concepts and math and structure and technology and commerce and would prefer transactions to relationships.
They're more expedient, more convenient.
Actually, what I meant was the object child in case I didn't get that right.
This one dominates most of our experience.
I'm walking around.
Everything around me is structure.
All boxes with windows and cars and pavement fences, right?
That's the physical signature of the object child.
But that's just the local signature because the social signature is filled with laws and proclamations and assertions and refutations and admonitions, demands.
That's also the object child.
It's not pretty, but worse, it's not human.
I have 10 fingers.
The great irony here is that the object child is founded in the water child, but kind of doesn't like it, to put it mildly.
And in some cases, in some people would prefer that we do away with all of that and just get down to the hard structure, you know, the concrete deliverables.
Every animal that was ever hit by a car knows about those concrete deliverables.
The last thing they probably ever knew other than terrifying agony and wrongness, injustice, terrible injustice.
And we are animals.
We get hit by cars and we get killed in cars.
For most of us, the prevailing sort of para-hypnotic continuum of society and culture keeps us asleep, inhibited, isolated.
We have great big electronic screens on which we watch people having interactions or being human.
And, you know, the young people, I mean, they're so, they're so what?
They're so energized and alive that some of them will develop buffers, but most of them will be really badly compromised over time.
But they know, they know that the structure is bullshit.
They know it's a big lie.
And it's one of the things, that knowledge is one of the things that one of the variables that funds their self-destructiveness.
Because they look around at a world they didn't make and don't want to inherit and don't believe in the values or priorities of.
And they think to themselves, well, you know, if that's what being human is,
I'm going to, I'll burn very brightly, even if it's very briefly.
We see plenty of us, too much, all over.
And it happens to the adults too.
Adults aren't immune to that kind of thinking.
But the teenagers are, you know, 9, 10, 11, 12 and on to the teens and young adulthood.
If you talk with them, then of course each person will be unique and you'll have a vast variety of experience.
But they'll tell you straight up, you know, this is wrong.
What we're doing is wrong.
It's bad.
It's not human.
It's not good.
None of the great elder gum trees in my neighborhood, it's just enormous.
It's, it grows right out of the, it blocks almost the entire cement.
It's just growing on this corner of the street on what would be the sidewalk.
It's just exquisite.
It's huge and old and it completely interrupts the structure, right?
It just blatantly sticks out as, you know, the living world busting through the concrete, dominating it.
The humans have allowed this great old tree to stay here so, so long.
It's very precious.
It's very precious to me.
Most of the religions are actually about the story of the water child.
And when you hear talk of demons and things like this, one of the things you're hearing might not be the only thing.
You're hearing the story of people that know what happens when the object child dominates societies.
It brings apocalypse.
It's a world ending aspect of our humanity.
Because, now, it doesn't have to be.
So, yes, this mythic, you know, this mythic scenario is playing out uniquely in all of us and in our culture and on our planet.
And it's endlessly rich, this terrain, right?
We could explore it till we die and not get past a fifth of it.
Not get to a thousandth of it, probably.
But the goal isn't to indict the object child, right?
The goal is to get the object child to play nicely with its own origin.
Because the way that this child plays, if it gets too much power and off on its own and isolated from its origin,
is it plays very serious zero-sum games.
And it's unaware, it doesn't, excuse me, it's either unaware or it doesn't care that that will result in its own ending.
Because when the water child that is giving rise to it ceases to be, then it disappears like a phantom.
And it has this fantasy that it can overcome the water child, right?
That it can do the things the water child does better, right?
It doesn't need that other thing.
It's like my pinky saying it doesn't need my body, right?
I'm a really powerful pinky.
I can build machines and destroy things and nothing can stop me.
So we're in a really weird situation.
It's very science fiction-y, it's very mythic.
And we don't want to get rid of the object child.
We want to bring the two children back together so that they can let us say the right one.
No, it's not right.
The appropriate leader is recognized.
And we can shift without losing our awareness of the water child to some of the capacities of the object child.
It's a way where they don't become world ending, right?
They don't become self-terminating because they're overseen by the water child's awareness of life and the invisibles of life and interiority and nature.
So if the object child is encompassed in that way, something really astonishing happens.
The first thing is it stops acting like a monster.
It stops acting like a demon.
And the second thing is it gets vastly better at what it does because it no longer has to compete against its own origin to do anything at all.
If one of those has to win, we're screwed, right?
And the water child doesn't care about winning, so it won't even show up for that.
So one of the directions forward is, first of all, the recognition and reemergence of what I'm referring to as the water child in our common experience in relationships and thought and learning and creativity and so on.
And then the other is the retrieval of the object child from the strange vacuum that is produced when it's placed in competition with its origin.
The object child actually has the capacity for profound heroism and beauty, but only when it's encompassed by the water child.
Because if it is not, then the produce of its work will be used to kill and torment and counterfeit and represent and like those two words sort of go together for me because the representation is an inauthentic replica of something.
There are exceptions. It's not the only way to think about it.
So the goal is to sort of retrieve the object child from its dissociated fugues of, you know, world dominating intent and return it to the embrace of its origin and twin.
It's a tall order, but it's just, it's only tall if we make a big, if the scope is large, if the scope is vast, right? If the scope is all the people, yeah, that's a tall order.
If the scope is you and me together in this moment, we can do that. We can get there right now.
We can bring the water child back into the conversation. We can create contacts where it's safe or not necessarily safe, but supported, encouraged, rewarded, and that will always benefit us whenever we're capable of making that agreement together.
People say things, it's impossible to change the world. Well, it might be impossible to change the whole world right now, but it's not impossible to change our world together for the next hour.
We can do that really easily. And that's where we can begin to learn and see how we might approach broader scales of transformation and maybe have some hope about returning our people to a path that is in tune with
