really skinny. They shipped me back here. I had to stay at a doctor for a 24-hour watch. Within
one night, within an hour, I shrunk even more down to my wrist. I could hold it like that with
these two fingers and go like this. It was just shrunk. They didn't know what it was. They kept
trying to figure out what it was. They weren't equipped for malaria here, really. They figured
it out. At that point, they could tell it was a very serious strain and they were able to cure it.
Talk about your experience during the first initiation.
Yeah. My first initiation was here. Before we went to Africa, it was the fire one, I believe.
And so, it was with other shamans, with Walidoma.
And what do they call themselves? Shamans. Really? In English, this word? Shamans?
Yeah. Okay. So, I'm talking about American shamans, not African shamans.
Over there, they have different names. Yes. And over there, what are some of the names?
Babalawal in Nigeria. Bacore in some places.
Most of the time, when they translated it to me, it just meant doctor.
And in Burkina Faso, is there a name? I can't remember what it is. Is it Tagara?
The Tagara have? Yeah, the Tagara. There's 300 different languages in Burkina.
Oh, really? Yeah. Just in Burkina. Wow.
And people say they call them dialects, but the languages are so different. How dare they?
Incredibly different. Yeah. Okay. So, back to your first initiation. There were other shamans?
Yeah. So, there were American shamans that were here and people that were very experienced in the stuff.
This stuff being initiated, basically baptized into the elements. You're baptized into them.
So, the fire... Is there no name for this? Not that I know of. Okay. Yeah.
No problem. So, yeah, it was horrifying for me, the first one, because it was fire.
It had large bonfires. It had to be a little bit beyond shoulder width. One fire here,
one fire there, one in front of you. You had to walk through and you had to sit and pray until the
skin started smoking or bubbling or something like that, and then you were like, oh, you were
allowed to leave. That was really hard for me, because I had really... You saw in the book,
my hair was kind of long. Yeah. I was really worried about my hair. So, it was hard to concentrate,
but the hotter it got, the more I was determined to focus. But I didn't like that.
But it was my first time being tested and baptized by fire.
There's definitely... I could see it being a necessity.
And then, of course, the other elements later.
Yeah. But not in the order that I would have thought. They weren't for whatever reason.
So, after that, we did the nature one, where you sit in front of a tree until you can see it as a
living being. And we did that one. That one didn't work that well for me. But just...
Molly Domey himself had trouble with this. Yeah. Yeah. Was it not so? Yes. Yes. Yes, he did.
He faked it first, right? Yeah. He tried to fake it. Yeah. He said, no, no. He'll go back.
The elder said, that's not what's there. Yeah. Yeah. Yep. That's true. I never saw anything,
but I felt like I could feel it. I felt like I understood that the tree was a living creature
way more than anything I thought it was. So, I leaned something from it, but I didn't lean...
Didn't have the full experience. Didn't have the full experience. Yeah.
And had you, at this point in time, ever experimented with psychedelic drugs?
Up until that time? By that point, yeah. Up until that time, had you?
I tried, what do you call it, that little pill? Nescaline? No. Little pill. What do you call that?
That love pill? Ecstasy? Ecstasy. Oh, really? Yeah. I tried that once, maybe twice. I'm not sure
I'd classify that as a psychedelic necessarily, but it's like some dude.
Acid? I tried a couple times, hated it. I became a really violent person with acid.
Yeah. I was really violent, out of this world. So, I never touched it again.
Ah. Yeah. I can't touch that stuff. Yeah. So, yeah, I tried those things, not mushrooms.
Yeah. I tried them later, but I still met that familiar with mushrooms. Don't really understand them.
I know there was Terence McKenna in different places, in different other, I call them shamans,
you know. That really promote that, and it's a good way to open those doors, but I never got it.
I think it's very dangerous actually. I think this is just me, my personal take, my bias,
or whatever, right? But I think we should have non-ordinary experience organically
before we do something that's like flipping a switch, that forces you to have a non-ordinary
experience. Yeah. And that doesn't seem wise to me. Also, there's the problem of if you don't,
if you can't have organic non-ordinary experience, which actually I think you and I are having
a little bit of even today right now. Yeah. Definitely. It's, you know, it's subtle,
but I can feel it. Yeah. At my heart. Me too. Yeah, I can feel it. Yeah. In bringing up these
matters, in a sense, without being religious about it, the power comes because we're speaking about
the power and the origin beings and nature. And like the Bible says, wherever two or more
gather, that's where I will be with you. So yeah, I'm just, I'm very concerned because
if that's your first experience of a non-ordinary situation and you're completely unprepared for
it and you have no power of your own, then you'll associate non-ordinary experience with the drug
and you'll think, oh, the key to non-ordinary experience with drug, which does not seem good
to me. That's not good. An advanced person could maybe be safe. Yeah. Right. And it would help them
in some way. But a naive person is going to probably become very confused. Become a drug addict.
Yeah. For that. Yeah. Right. Yeah. Because the non-ordinary experiences are very compelling.
Yeah. But one of the other problems with the psychedelic experiences is that you have
something similar to non-ordinary insight. Yes. But you can't bring it back across.
It's worse than having had a dream. Yeah. Right. The dream you can at least tell the plot.
Yeah. The psychedelic experience, you have these insights, but they don't translate to when you're
back in normal consciousness again. Yeah. I mean, if you write them down,
right? And mostly just from most people, there are exceptions. It just looks like gobbledygook.
Yeah. You know? It's true. So there's something missing there because real non-ordinary experience
usually brings with it insight, it seems to me. Yeah. And the insight stays with you even after
the experience. That's the woke part. That's what woke me. That was the initial meaning of woke.
Right there. Yeah. The old meaning before it was compromised.
Politicized. Yeah. Yes. Before it was captured. Yep. But then after that nature experience,
it was still earth. It was still mineral. And the last one we did was water. It was water.
The earth one was horrible. Did it bury you? Yeah. Talk about it. Yeah. Tell us what happened.
So yeah, we were buried. That was here before we left for Africa. We did that here. Thank God.
I mean, they dig maybe not six feet, but pretty close, right? You're way down and you feel the
full weight of that dirt on you when you're buried, right? And you have straws and things
in your nose and in your mouth. And so maybe we're probably like four feet down and there's
probably like a couple feet of dirt on top of us, right? Something like that.
But it's hard because you can feel the acts and you're naked. And you can feel the bugs and insects
and things crawling all around you. And every time you move to scratch yourself, you can't move again.
That's it. You know, you move. You can't move again because the dirt settles in and feels that
gap. So, you know, you freeze. Yeah. I mean, this is like death. It's death. And you hear the people
crying and wailing over you, right? As if you've died? As if you've died. It's a full funeral.
Oh my goodness. A funeral while you're alive. Yeah. Wow. And it's all night. I mean, not the entire
night. I think it was maybe four in the morning when they dug us up. Wow. So like 10 hours? No,
no, no. We probably started about 10 or 11. Okay. It's still six hours underground.
And was there a ceremony before they bury you?
No. Really? Yeah. I mean, there is kind of as they're preparing it. But it's not before,
it's like part of it, right? So they're singing, you know, and they're preparing and digging
everything. All the work you do in Africa has some kind of song to go with it. So,
you know, it's hard to tell sometimes where the ceremonies begin in it.
What you made it through? Yeah. I mean, we all made it through. It was totally safe.
They're not going to let you die. Yeah. But I mean, psychically, you survived. Oh, I expanded
after that. That was one of my biggest openings right there. Yeah. That was my favorite. Hated it,
though. Yeah. But it was my favorite. And when you say expanded, talk about what you mean.
Yeah. I felt like I could instantly, now this is just me talking, but I felt like I could
instantly understand anything that was told to me or anything I read or anything I haven't read yet.
I felt like I already got it. I felt like the earth gave me everything I needed to know.
Instantly. I don't know if it's a song. I don't know if there's a way, you know,
maybe the earth is filled with so many ancestors or maybe I don't know how that happened. But
it doesn't really require an explanation, does it? It doesn't really require an explanation.
So the gift of immediate understanding seemed to come to you. Yeah. And it was weird because
it was like, okay, I'm a little clumsy, right? And I put something down and I want to fall. But it
was after that ceremony, I could grab it before I hit the ground. My awareness was intact. More
than intact. Yeah, your awareness was dramatically enhanced. I relate. So the nature was with the
tree? Yeah. What was the mineral? That was one of the worst ones. I haven't described any of them
very well. Well, this one was hard because that was in Africa. And you know, in the Sahara desert,
everything's hot. Everything touches hot. Stones are really hot. And you lie on the hot sand and
they pile stones on you. And you're covered in stones and you sit there for maybe a couple hours.
Granted, the ones underneath, the ones closest to you cool off, which kind of helped,
but it was horrible. It was absolutely horrible. And again, singing and full ceremony.
And the last one was weird because the last one was the water one. And that was like church.
And that part really messed me up because I felt like I was getting baptized again.
It was just a baptism. But the way he was explaining and the way the
elders would explain it is that this is tradition. It was tradition. It's like, well,
how far back did it go? Was it Christian involved? Did you add from the...
They're saying it's not. It's tradition. It predates Christianity. They even claim,
Malidoma claims that the baptism in Christianity was originated from these,
the water baptism in Africa. Yeah, that makes more sense.
And that's why John the Baptist used that system.
He looks pretty much like a shaman, right? He lives in the forest.
He lives in the forest, eight bees and honey. As far as we know, he didn't eat anything else.
Yeah. And by the way... Locust and honey. Yeah, okay. Locust and honey. Yeah.
Yeah. I mean, the nectar of the bees, that's...
You gotta wonder about the power in a beehive because it's touching the generative organs.
And one thing not too many people know is that lots of regular plants that don't flower produce
nectar, they produce it at the joints. And the bees will drink that nectar too. So the hummingbirds,
right? Yeah. So you're talking like hundreds of thousands of plants each day, this nectar coming
to one place, right? The hive and then being concentrated in the honey. Yeah. And it's...
You can see that there's a principle there. You follow? Oh, yeah.
There's a principle that's embodied in those bees. And so the bees themselves have great power,
right? But the principle is also very powerful. That's why for me, whenever I think of Oshun,
I see her as a middle-aged woman, really beautiful, strong-looking woman,
just like powerful, but surrounded by bees. Oh, yes. Yes. Surrounded by constant bees.
And who is Oshun? Well, she comes from Nigeria. So it has nothing to do with Burkina Faso.
They have their own. And I think they call her Mane Wata or something like that over there.
Even that's Americanized. But the Oshun in Nigeria, because my family's evil Nigeria,
in our origin. But the Oshun, she's like the goddess of love, rivers, not oceans. That's the
different that's Yemaga. But Oshun is a goddess of love and rivers and sex, relationships in general,
connected connectivity, which has a lot to do with the bees and the honey.
Yeah, stuff like that. Milk.
So what happened with the water?
Yeah, so not much as far as experiences, because it was just like a dip in the water,
and we come back out. But what happened to me as a Joe's witness is like,
you know, I'm no longer a Joe's witness. Mentally, I was able to let go. These
religions are just copying old traditions. And they know they work, so they use them.
Yes, they've, what is it when the modern culture captures something as a word for this?
And I've been looking for it the whole time.
Oh, yeah, I agree with you.
Appropriation?
Yes, they're appropriating. Thank you so much. Brilliant. Yes, that's it. It's a form of appropriation.
And not all appropriation is bad. We appropriate English from our parents, right?
And there's all kinds of, so that there is a, there's a form that we, in politically correct
conversation, presume is, you know, ethically flawed, but there's all, I mean, everything is
appropriation in a way. In the Blackfoot culture, probably this is called contagion,
and it's not just negative, right? Transfer of power is contagion.
The two primary principles in Blackfoot magic are contagion.
In Blackfoot spiritual traditions, I have to, I have to sort of edit myself here.
And I'm not an expert on these things, but from what I've learned from Ryan, right?
It's contagion and similitude, right? Similarity and contagion.
So you realized after the water, you're no longer Jehovah's Witness.
Yeah. And mentally, I was able to completely let go. Before then, my sister,
everybody was in my brain, you know, yelling at me, and I was able to completely let go after
the water baptism. Okay, so let's, yeah, let's, that's, that's really important. So kind of what
you're saying is that the admonitory aspects of Christianity coupled with the admonitions that
you would receive from your family members, particularly your mother and perhaps your sister,
were constantly at play in your mind. Is that true? Yeah, I couldn't even date. I couldn't do
anything. Oh, yeah. Because you can't tell if you're doing something that will cost you your
family. Yeah, right. Even whether or not it's good or bad, right? And then on the other side,
there's like this displeasing God and blah, blah, blah. But then there's also just the social
thing of I will be ejected from social relationships, the terrifying threat,
it is terrifying threat to anyone, especially to a child or a teenager or something like this.
Unfortunately, the religions have been weaponized over time, right? So that
they capture the specific vulnerabilities of our psyches, and just double down on those things,
eternal damnation, eviction from a relation, the loss of the soul, all these things.
One of the soulless things that Joel is where this is actually do is they almost force you
as a teenager or a preteen even, like myself, I was 13, I think, or 14, when I got baptized.
Because once you're baptized, you're committed. If I was never baptized, they could never take
my family away. They couldn't threaten me with that. But they told me, oh, Armageddon's coming
next year, 1975, you've got to get baptized, or else you've got to be dead. Wow. And so I got
baptized. Yeah, that's the other feature is the, what is it, eschatology, right? The world, the
apocalypse vision. That's 100% Jehovah's Witness. Yeah. I mean, it seems Christian too, because
like revelation seems pretty eschatological, I think is the right word. But yeah, the world
ending and the threat of that. And of course, the world is always ending. Yeah. But there are also
times when the world is really ending too, throughout history. Oh, yeah. It's not like
there's one apocalypse. Yeah. There's like this sort of heartbeach of apocalypse. And human and
natural and so on. Yeah. All right, let's take a little break here, and then we'll come back
and talk more about what happens in Africa. Okay.
