And so we're back for part two of an interview with Mark Kevin Charlton Davis,
and I think we left off. You've met your grandfather, and you've seen his place,
but you don't really get to spend a lot of time with him, and you're very intrigued by the
exposure that you've had to both African Americans and also your curiosity about Native
cultures, particularly in Africa, but also around the world, and the dearth of, you know,
accessible material for you, and then your exposures to Malcolm X and Martin Luther King,
and Peter Tosh, and Bob Marley, and sort of exploding out of that very constrictive
Jehovah's Witness environment, and then also being separated from your mother by that environment,
and then you encounter Bollywood Somay's work around this time too, and so lead us into
you somehow get to Africa. Yeah, so leading up to that, that exposure of watching Maladoma go
through that initiation process as a child in the Book of Water and Spirit, it was kind of,
it really related to me because of that survival that you had, I mean they would take 20 to 30 kids,
20 to 30 kids out into the jungle, and they had to survive on their own. They were taught lessons,
there were four or five elders there, you know, so there were, you know, there was adult supervision
to some extent, but you're talking 12, 12-year-old to 16-year-old roughly,
kids that were all brought out into the into the forest to survive, very, he brought up a lot in me
because I want to, this is for the purpose of explaining why I wanted to connect with Bolly
Maladoma. When I was a child, if I went off, you know, you go outside, if I'm carrying a
sandwich, like a ham sandwich or something like that, and back to me called the sandwich,
but if I went out with the sandwich, the other kids, the teenage kids would take it away from
you, right, sometimes with a gun, put a gun in your head and take your sandwich. Wow, yeah, yeah,
one time on the beach, this fat kid, he couldn't get away, we all ran away because this guy had a
gun, right, and we all ran, but the fat kid couldn't get away, and they found some human waste in a
plastic bag that washed up on shore, so it was green and blue and all kinds of stuff, and they
made him eat it, they squeezed it into his mouth and made him eat it while holding a gun to his head.
I don't know why I stood to watch that, but I was in so much shock, I stood and watched.
Where and when did that kind of thing take place? That was in Santa Monica,
maybe 66, 67, something like that. Wow. Yeah, my mom, she had a breakdown,
nervous breakdown, she calls it, but they gave her blood transfusions, like three of them,
so I'm not quite sure what that's about, but she was, for almost two years, she was like absent,
maybe she was there, maybe she wasn't, or came and left, but I know almost never saw her,
so we were babysat a lot, and I spent a lot of time, by the time I was seven, I knew Los Angeles,
I knew how to get on a bus and go downtown, we went everywhere, did everything, three in the
morning, I'd come home, and I didn't want to be at home with that babysitter because she
would molest, she would attend to a molest, and so I would try to stay out as long as I could,
so I spent a lot of time on the street, and so that story about Malidola having to deal with
molestation in the Catholic Church, and then having to run away from that as a teenage,
in his late teens, and run away from that, and 100 mile walk back to his village,
the stuff he had to go through there, I related to it, I understood that,
so yeah, by the time I was ready to come see him, after I finished painting the last house,
I was working on it, the guy paid me six grand or whatever, I packed everything I owned in my
Jeep Cherokee and came out to California, and I've been out here ever since, but it was primarily,
it was Malidola that brought me out here, didn't know where he lived, I went to LA first,
stayed with my uncle for a couple days, got robbed, everything I owned that was in the
Jeep Cherokee was spread all along the street, as far as you can see, but stuff was everywhere,
I don't even know what they took, they took all my jewelry and stuff like that, but my clothes,
they just left them all over the street, but I stayed there for a couple days and then I left
LA and drove up to Oakland because I knew he was in San Francisco, but I didn't know where,
got on 580 and pulled up into Oakland Hills and fell asleep up there, and
I managed to get ahold of his society and they connected me with somebody who was willing to
take me in for it because there was a special event coming, so they allowed me to come and
spend the night there and stuff like that, I gave them my book, the book was passed on to
me, I mean that book, my notebook, writing just epiphanies, silly stuff probably, but
it was enough to catch his interest to where he decided to call me and he called me and
sure enough right where I fell asleep on 580 was right where his office was, so I knew exactly
how to get back there, and it was right up on Skyline Boulevard, so I went there and he had me
work for him as the secretary for a couple years at that point. And what years are those about?
2000, 1999 to 2001. Okay. Yeah, yeah. And so did you see him in ceremony, did he teach you?
A lot of ceremonies, yeah. Tell us, tell us what happened. Yeah, the ceremonies are beautiful.
Um, now granted, there's a lot of negative, you know, things around surrounding Maladoma,
right, and whether it's his stuff, whether the stuff is real or not, but I kind of understand
where he's coming from because he was trying to take things that are very traditional and
transcribe them into something that we could use here in this country. It's not going to be
exact, we don't have the exact anything. Yeah, it's a similar problem of like Michael Harner
and shamanism and, you know, him having been an anthropologist, right, sort of producing a
an Americanized version. Yeah, Michael Harner stayed at the place I was at. Oh, so after,
remember, I was saying I was staying at a place right after I fell asleep and I finally found a
place where I could go that Michael Harner was staying there. Through Nairopa, I think it's in
Colorado, he was a speaker there and there was a circuit of speakers, shamanic speakers. So
Maladoma was one and he was another one, Michael Harner, and there was a few other other ones.
Yeah, Harner was my first direct team in exposure to shamanistic traditions and
there's certainly, it's easy to be critical about, you know, various features of how
it gets sort of captured by white culture and so on, all of these things. Yes, of course, we can
be concerned about that. But it was a really profound thing to meet him. And I was in a room
with about 200 other people, but I managed to get his attention when I first went in.
And so he paid attention to me personally throughout the thing. So I got some like one-on-one
stuff with him. And at the time, I was curious and I'd read Castaneda, but I was also skeptical.
Right, like I had the experience, he did the drumming, right, taught us like three basic things,
right, to how to journey, how to read a stone for someone. And one other thing that I'm not sure
if I can remember, but the journey was the main thing. Yeah, for me too, with Castaneda. And
you know, I had the experience, right, you're supposed to like find a, in your memory, you find
a cave or a hole in a tree or a nest in the ground or a whirlpool or maybe a waterfall where the
water's folding into itself. And you go there to start in your mind. And then the drumming's going
like pum, pum, pum, pum, pum, like this, right. And then you go down a tunnel until you come out
in some landscape. And then you look for an animal that's not a predator. And you, you know, have
a exchange with the animal. And so I had this. And in fact, the first animal led me to a second tunnel.
And the tunnel led me to a different landscape. And there was a different animal down there,
and they were both then there with me. But I couldn't really tell that it wasn't just my imagination
until many years later when I became well aware that it was not my imagination.
So you meet Molly Doma and you're a secretary. Yeah. Any initiations happen? What, what tell us
about? I got to witness other people's initiations. You know, I was like an assistant. So I got this,
you know, even though he was a public speaker, his daily work was going to visit people and helping
them individually. A lot of them are just trying to get out of jail or court cases. But there was a
lot of different issues that he, that he would do. Basically, like not just a healer, but also
like a troubleshooter. Yeah, yeah, something like this. Yeah. And he did the best he could.
Some of the things were ridiculous, like to me, but I was brand new on all of it. But sometimes
it's just like, you know, come on, guys, this isn't real. This is not happening. No, she's not
possessed but the demon, you know, no, she's just acting. She's rich. You know, that's how it felt.
But it seemed like whenever he tried to do something, he did it in such a way to
incorporate, to at least have that have a space, because that's their, that's their imagination.
And the way he described it, which is the most beautiful thing I've heard ever publicly, is that
the way into the shamanic path, that spiritual path is through the imagination. Yeah, that's,
that's the opening door. That's the portal. So even if you're imagining a tree, a hole in the
tree or a cave or anything like that, it's starting with the imagination, that image,
that imagery becomes like a vector for us. Yes, yes.
What was one of the more surprising things you saw him do?
You want to hear the first surprise? Yes, please.
Okay, it was probably not fair, but he passed away. So he won't say anything. At least not right now.
Okay, I think it was my second day of working as a secretary. And, you know, he had me entering
all the calls. He had me doing all the, responding all the emails. He said, just put my name
Aledoma at the end or Patrice or whatever. Sure. You know, attendance, him responding to these people.
I understood it, but it was wrong, you know, but he had three, like three or four hundred
emails a day, you know, and he didn't know how to handle it. He didn't know what to do with it.
And maybe he was testing me to see what I would do. So, you know, I did it for that reason.
I forgot what I was going to say. Something surprising that you saw. Oh, yeah. So one of the
messages, the phone messages was his life. So, and she's like saying, I know you're with that woman.
You know, and then she started speaking in her language, right? And it's like, oh my god,
what is that? I didn't know what that was. You know, and then so when I went to one of our
ceremonies and there was a lot of women there, I started understanding what was happening because,
you know, they're just really attracted to him, you know, like dozens of power and the,
you know, the fame and everything. Yeah. And he had, he had a lot of character. Yeah. Charming,
charismatic, I'm sure. Very charismatic. Yeah. So he, yeah, but I couldn't understand it. But
his wife was so beautiful. It's like, I don't get it. You know, she's, she was absolutely beautiful.
And she was doing the same work he was doing. Like, oh, wow. You know, she even had her own books
and everything, you know, her name again, Sobomphu, S-O-B-O-N-F-U. Sobomphu. Yeah.
Okay. So you were surprised to see that basically he kind of had a harem. Yeah. Essentially, right?
Yep. Okay. And then once, once people discovered me as a secretary and that, you know, he was
paying for my trips to Africa and stuff like that, they started laughing on to me, you know.
But I didn't know how to handle it as a Jola's witness, you know, that recently just left the
church. Sure. Please continue. Yeah. I didn't know, I didn't know how to accept it. So, you know,
I would kind of flirt a little bit or I'd get semi-involved without no kissing or touching or
anything. I think one girl I did kiss, but I didn't have any of it well. Yeah. But it was
interesting. You were still quite young in many ways. Mentally especially. Yeah. Yeah. Almost
a virgin in some ways. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. At what age now? Oh, geez. Okay. So this would have been
1989. What does that mean? Almost 40. Does that sound right? Yeah. I think so. Yeah. That sounds
right. Yeah. Almost 40. Wow. And still had pretty limited experience. Really limited. I mean,
did you have some children yet? Yeah, I did. I had at least three. Yeah. Okay. Different experiences,
different women. One was because of the church and the one of them was to get out of the church
and one of the third one was to get back in. Everything was around that Joe was with us.
But I didn't have any experience with dating. Like none, you know,
like even these women I married, we never actually dated. That was a single moment of dating.
Yeah, I don't. Honestly, I have very little experience of dating. I don't even,
I know what the idea is, but I've always just met a girl that I love pretty much immediately.
Yeah. And then we're just together. Yeah. It's just dating. Yeah. That's what happened. It wasn't
like, you know, oh, try a few different flavors or anything like that. Yeah. It was just like, oh,
no, you. Yeah. Yeah, we're together. So surprising things that you saw anything in terms of power
that you saw at Mully Dunlop. Did you see him do anything that you really were like,
wow, what was that? Outside of his speech note. No, there, there were some things that happened
that were involving other elders, not him alone. Yeah. Understood. So circle kind of. Oh, yeah.
Yeah. A very deep circle. Yeah. When he got his initiation into eldership, which was the second
time I went back to Africa. When he got initiation into eldership, he was, there was at least
400 baby shamans there. Really? To acknowledge his eldership. Yeah. At least 400 maybe. Oh my
Lord. Yeah. That's unimaginable. Yeah. 400. Yeah. You know, there can't be anything like that in
South America. I don't think so. No. Not at this level. Yeah. It's because the,
well, it's complicated. The population hasn't been decimated in the same way that it has been
decimated, at least not in certain areas, in certain areas, it has not been decimated. Yeah.
And especially the religious practices. Okay. Burkina Faso has the highest rate of
traditional indigenous religious practice of any place in the world. Wow. Yeah. And this is
where Molly Denman is supposedly from. Yes. And it's trustworthy that he's from there. Oh, yeah.
Okay. So that part's true. Yeah. Even as recently as yesterday, I'm still in contact with his family
almost every day. Wow. Yeah. So no evidence of actual power that you saw and no initiations
for you with Molly Denman. I had initiations with him. I did. Okay. As far as power, when you say
power, like, I mean, there are experiences and things like that, but not like, well, that seemed
like impossible. That didn't happen. It was only my internal experiences that I went through with him.
There was a point where we were supposed to see Contombe and he, he had advertised it that way.
And that's why all of these people came, Americans, you know, to see the little dwarf
people that live underground with long penises that are that wrap around the next
and they're hairy and got long 20 years. We were supposed to see you that that was in the cave.
Right. So all of these people, there was at least 30 Americans between 20 and 30 Americans.
And we drove them out to the middle of nowhere out to this cave. And
it wasn't real. It wasn't real. It was really dark in there. And I could hear the little voice
and all of that stuff. But I could also see at that time, my vision was extremely good.
You know, I could see that it was a little boy. Not only was it a little boy
in that cave pretending, but he was a twin and I just saw him outside. I said, it's, you know,
you know, they're the same, you know, it's a twin. And I got it verified that the boy that I was
pointing to was a twin. You know, and at that point, I think Molly Dome, I didn't like me anymore.
Yeah. But I mean, he should have let me in on it at least. Yeah. Why surprise me?
I'm there to learn. If you wanted me to shut up, I would have shut up.
In your initiation experience, the first one, speak of it, anything you wish to share.
So my first ones were with Molly Dome and Somme. And these are experiences that I would
recommend for anyone. They were wonderful. They're not his, they're tradition and they're great.
So how would someone seek such an experience today?
They'd have to see a shaman that knows the system and that's going to be hard. The system is.
So earth, water, fire, nature, mineral and what the processes are to be. Basically,
you're being baptized into those elements. So if I were to draw, it doesn't have to be any
particular to anything. It's just to the element itself. So if you have a grandmother or grandfather
in your life that you feel relates to one of those elements or the birthday and you can
probably figure it out that way, right? You can use them for that element. It doesn't have to be
some stranger from someone, other person's family. They won't tell you that, you know.
In Africa, they don't talk like that because their roots are with their ancestors. So they
know it works. They don't recommend you go somewhere else. It works for them.
Where I separated, when I got malaria, I saw what worked for them. Their herbs worked for them
when they get malaria. They don't work for me. They didn't work for me at all. The herbs work
for them, you know what I mean? They could heal themselves in two or three days. My wife got
malaria more than once. No problem. I had to be shipped out of Africa, put on a plane and delivered
back to the United States because nothing worked for me. There may have been some,
are you certain that that's because it doesn't work for you or could there have been other
variables involved with you? No. We all got malaria at the same time. It was the worst strain of
malaria. It was different kinds. This was a killer strain. I lost, I can show you pictures of 150
pounds. I could reach in and feel my spine through my stomach. I could reach in and grab it. I was
