what was desired, right, what character or flavor of result was desired.
This is determinative in the selection process.
Unedited cut-up is very interesting.
Edited cut-up is often more profound.
And the combination of cut-up with intentional creative writing and thought is also very profound.
And what do I mean by profound?
Boros certainly discovered, and many other authors have discovered this,
that when writing, there are specific ways to go about the process of writing,
methods, if you will, that they may not necessarily be conscious or formal,
but not only produces astonishing results, and again, it depends on what you're after,
what kind of astonishing they are, or if they're any, you know, if they're useful at all.
It turns out that it's a magical practice.
It won't a whole bunch matter whether you believe in magic or not.
If you play around with this stuff, you will eventually discover,
presuming that your passion in pursuing it is real.
It's like present.
You will discover that the manipulation of language can restructure history
and possibly invent future timelines,
as well as affect the nature of time along those lines, the character of time.
If I have been in any way a student of magic, my interest has never been in manipulating reality.
Magic is a way of intentionally warping reality and transforming it according to one's intentions, goals or will.
Or, if you're as loopy as Burroughs, just straight up experimentally,
let's just throw this stuff together and see what we can produce and what kinds of results obtain.
I do think Burroughs was more intentional than that, but he was quite an experimentalist.
I also think that he is an esthete.
He had an aesthetics within his experiments that render his work art,
rather than, say, some branch of science, or perhaps many people would like to think,
merely he was like a bubbling pot of little branches of insanity on some giant tree
that had a monstrous visage, probably insectoid visage in his case.
But if I've had an interest in magic, it's not for the purpose of warping reality, per se.
It's more the pursuit of beauty and understanding of the strange, complex underpinnings of human thought and identity and nature
and the various ways in which those opportunities are often disposed of, commodified, inhibited, amputated, occulted, and so forth.
Burroughs was, I mean, there was a lot going on with the guy.
In a sense, he was a space traveler and the space he was traveling in was metalinguistic, peralinguistic, partly magical, imaginal.
And, you know, he was a person who was most of his life involved in drug use and intoxication.
He must have, there's a certain degree of hedonism there, and many of his writings explode into kind of terrifying, often orgiastic scenes
of humans overtaken in a sort of mob-like frenzy of every possible mode of sexuality that could be conceived of.
And some that probably wouldn't. So that was, you know, he was an explorer of the outer space of eroticism in this sense.
And a very unusual intelligence that was at once captured by its left, you know, by the reflection of its left hemispheric, like, structure.
And then, you know, the injection of liberty that comes from somehow warping that back on its own origins, and while doing so introducing the dreaming mind or some features of the dreaming minds, like knowledge and discoveries about language and its origins, its history.
So we began to produce experiments, Gary and I, both together and alone, circa 1985. And I was young, but I was sharp, and I was sort of fresh from the mold in a sense of...
Like just being indy-fatigable, always wanting to play with language and, you know, creative vignettes.
We had a two-hour improvised sort of industrial music opera called Traffic Signal Man, as an example, in which we just switched off riffing about the experiences of a man who came to understand
that the traffic signals encoded all futures and that they could be read there.
We had experiments involving telepathy.
We were aware, at least peripherally, of the importance of that topic, and we were also concerned with how to use language in such unexpected ways that it could trigger like a cascade.
It could set up a kind of cascade in consciousness.
Burroughs was certainly aware of this potential and interested in it. In effect, rather than being a watchmaker, Burroughs was trying to make a bomb.
He was trying to understand how to use language to destroy the cages that language often imposes on our identity, our imagination, our creativity, our life path.
He's right about the cut-up method. A lot of his magical practices, which were not really promoted specifically as such, are quite surprising in their results if applied in the right spirit.
They definitely changed both the practitioner and the context around them.
He was interested in a kind of armed rebellion of the counterculture.
I believe that he wanted to give them the weapons that emerge in the light of a tactically superior relationship with language and creativity.
In his mind, the stuff that advertisers and propagandists were doing was, you know, plural, childish, compared to what could easily be accomplished by someone who was aware of the scope of the possibilities.
And the first few times that there were effects from the kinds of experiments that Gary and I did together and alone, I got to say I was troubled or at least extremely surprised.
We had conceived of such things, but we didn't believe them at first glance. We thought of that as a sort of a poet's fairy tale, if you will, or the poet's fairy tale, right?
The poetry is actually magic. No, it's not a fairy tale. At least there's a slice of the pie of poetics that, you know, the quality probably encompasses most of writing.
But in that encompassment, the slice where you will see strong evidence of magical transformation of the past, cognition, or the future, that slice is relatively modest.
Now, of course, if you begin with that particular purpose, or if that purpose is one of the foundational purposes in your work as a writer, that's a completely different story.
You're going to have non-ordinary adventures. When Burroughs, and I'm not sure he was the first or the only one to say this, in fact, this quote could come from someone else.
But when Burroughs says language is a virus from outer space, who's the other guy? Gloria Anderson, William S. Burroughs, and John Giorno.
A brilliantly fascinating writer and performer, who also deeply influenced my friend Gary.
He and I probably met specifically due to the effect of John Giorno on Mr. P's mind, because he came to my music store looking for certain kinds of effects pedals, particularly time delays.
And Giorno was at this time already well known for a style of kind of extended tirades, extended poetic tirades with echo, with some parts echoing.
Gary had produced a recording that I eventually heard, and I have a copy of somewhere. It was absolutely brilliant.
He and I were both concerned with performing on stage, and we were concerned with dramatic sort of performance art oriented aspects of stage craft.
And I can't recall yet the title of this piece, but I just, when I heard it I knew I was in the presence of a brilliant conspiratorial intelligence.
Something, the word, there's a word, and then the last, the second word is lectures.
If I recall correctly, what Gary would do is he would, this is so, so brilliant.
He would very timidly get up on the stage looking with his body language, nervous and frightened, and he would adjust his glasses a lot and look very inept.
And then he would pull a crumpled sheet of paper out of his pocket and try to uncrumble it and drop it and make apologies and so forth.
And then start kind of stammering through a really childlike writing about his dog or something, right, and bumbling and stuttering.
But then, slowly, over time, a transformation would begin to overcome him as his style mutated from timid, stammering, nervous person,
to a sort of southern evangelist, you know, kind of a hellfire evangelist begins to emerge and then becomes absolutely exultant
and is, you know, pounding the audience with waves of para-religious invective.
And it was absolute genius.
I needed to know the man whose mind that came from, and so we were very close for many years, well, for a few, three or four, and then our paths diverged.
But during that time, we did a lot of experimental composition with sound, language, cut-up methods.
My friend Forrest Gower built a software system for me that I could use to deconstruct any text file and then randomly reassemble it in a broad variety of ways.
And I rarely use that to write, but I used it quite frequently to produce what I would think of as the clay, right?
The verbal clay that, through re-entrant editing over time, would become, you know, finished compositions.
We also experimented quite a bit with what I will call Bibliomancy.
There's a reason why we have words like this, and the reason isn't, oh, someone just made up some superstitious stuff,
and so we had to make up a word to point at the superstition.
That is nowhere near where the word Bibliomancy comes from.
Bibliomancy comes from humans discovering that something resembling the cut-up method was itself oracular.
That literally could give you a doorway to revisioneer your perspective on a person's situation, group, opportunity, threat, or future.
Bibliomancy involves a state of mind that is receptive and respectful to the power of that process,
and the random selection of books and passages in books.
You can put as many books before you as you like, and then just switch back and forth.
And what this does is it allows the mind's naturally-irregular faculties to, in a dream-like way,
create an intimate structural bubble in which reflections arise.
And one could say, oh, it's not the language, it's not the text, it's the mind.
Nope, it's not true. It's both.
It's both things playing together that produce the strange and fascinating bubble.
What you might do is say select five books, open them up.
I used to do this as a bit of a party trick sometimes, and it would blow people away.
If I had them select books, I would get them open in front of me, and then I would randomly compose an aleatoric text by selecting,
arbitrarily as fast as I could, passages from different books and then flipping the pages and redoing that.
It produces a magical result if one does this, because no one has ever heard language used like that.
And in fact, most of us are subject to language, and this is a situation in which we rise above our subjugation to language
and use it for our purposes, which we may hope are beautiful, but at the very least let them be insightful or educational.
There are broad arrays of discoverable methods in such play.
The sensibilities of the explorer, the researcher, the psychologist, the psychogenesis, the one who wants to craft minds,
which all authors partake in because the production of language is a mind-crafting concern.
We want to shape the linguistic, visual, relational, and experiential manifold its branches.
We want to shape them and reform them, and also hopefully give them new kinds of liberty to astonish them by transforming their own structure.
Language is really good at doing that.
The successful experimenter will have some common features with people like Burroughs, even if Burroughs himself is a very unique and sometimes harsh example.
Let's see if in closing, oh wait, I have a place of dead roads.
Let's see what we've got here.
I think I can do a little bit of this.
I'm so old, I need spectacles, so ridiculous.
A little bit dangerous, but...
When someone asks me to what extent my work is autobiographical, a rooming house in Denver was used for storage then,
stopped into a saloon, half hoping that someone would anyway, I'm leaving America, they burn it to fix our drinks.
Now, Broadway's full of God advanced and detailed incantations are carried after the play who just arrived.
My dead, I mean, my dear, who didn't like this and they, like a jeweler examining precious stones,
have been impressed by the self-confidence and the families with such deadly precision, the wine and the grappa.
A jalopy said that the violent back kick of Tom Forcade was but a charm, a power that is hard to pinpoint, a knife.
Learn how to use the solid knife first.
If you're jealous, you're not in control of the situation.
Three of his boys down riddled with bullets, Vienna.
I love Vienna.
Do you remember he encouraged me to have an exit permit?
Okay, so there's a little bit of an example of a relatively crude and simplistic moment of bibliomancy play in the books with William Burroughs,
which I certainly report from the bunker, which I recommend.
And probably my favorite book of Burroughs, at least back when I used to read some of them.
By the way, I wasn't much of a fan of his writing.
There were some of his things that I loved, some of his short, what would he call them?
The routines, yeah, routines.
I thought of partly as comedic, though they often come off very grim.
So yeah, this podcast I was listening to brought many things to mind, and I wanted to talk a little bit about the strange and experimental brilliance of Burroughs
and his influence on my own thought, experience, and life path.
I hope some of you found this interesting, even though it was quite autobiographical.
When Burroughs was asked, you know, is your work autobiographical, he says something like every word in it is autobiographical and none of it is autobiographical.
This is a kind of typical unwillingness to collapse into a system whose structures he may fundamentally mistrust.
Thank you for joining me. I look forward to learning together again very soon.
Bye-bye for now.
