Hello, everyone. Welcome.
I've been listening to a podcast.
An interview with Ted Morgan, who wrote a book on the life of William S. Burroughs.
And I learned quite a bit about his life in the first segment,
where mostly they're talking about his life. I learned a bunch of really interesting things.
I have long...
I think around the time I became capable of writing something that I myself considered reasonably to be a poem,
which was a good four or five hundred attempts into my writing education.
I had written many... well, a number of notebooks filled with mostly very bad poetry.
And I'd become very interested at that age, probably. What am I?
I start writing around the age of twenty-one-ish.
No. It's got to be earlier. It's got to be like nineteen.
And my writing career begins with an LSD trip involving me, rich,
around guitar player, brilliant, very troubled guitar player, one of my closest old friends.
His friend, whose name will probably come to me, and my best friend from Stockton, Greg Ward,
who was probably the youngest among us.
They showed up at my first apartment, which was on Pershing in Stockton.
And they were on LSD. They had driven here without directions and drove directly from where they were here without interruption.
In other words, they quite reasonably, I thought, claimed to have telepathically discerned the route.
And of all the things that humans might easily be able to telepathically discern routes,
or among them I myself have experienced a number of situations not involving the use of psychedelics,
where I was able to traverse a route between two quite distant points.
And without knowing the location of the person or place I was seeking, I was able to just arrive there by car.
I would claim this happened no less than five times in my life and maybe no more than nine that I was aware of.
But yes, humans can, under some circumstances, telepathically determine and traverse.
I mean, it's not determined. It's not like you plan the route in your mind.
You simply drive in the general direction of somewhere with the hope that you will figure out how to arrive there, quote unquote.
What ends up happening has nothing to do with figuring, much at all.
There might be a tiny bit of figuring. It's mostly a non-ordinary skill.
So yeah, my writing began that night.
Me and Greg took some of the LSD they brought. They were peaking when they got there.
We were peaking, I don't know, six hours later.
And both Rich and his friend, who I forged a fairly close bond with, had notebooks.
And in the notebooks, they were writing things, not necessarily stories and not necessarily poems.
They were just writing.
And I felt very envious in the sense of this.
I wanted to have a notebook in which I wrote things.
And so I started, I had a notebook, and I started writing that night.
I think I remember the terrible badness of my early attempts.
I think I almost can remember what thing it was I wrote.
I might have written a couple of sort of bad prose, Pink Floyd-esque things.
A man alone on a hill.
A blue amoeba is involved. Anyway, yeah, I wrote terrible poetry.
But by the time I was capable, I started, and I also remember the first time I wrote a poem,
that I thought might actually be a real poem.
And it was after running into in the afternoon near a little shop in Santa Rosa in a sort of rural part of town,
I...
Let me fix my mic here, hopefully, so that we can reduce the wind noise.
Right, hopefully that's not on my earlier recording too.
So I was walking around and I came across someone who was Touretting while riding a bicycle.
And I thought to myself that some part of me was very much like that inside myself,
but had no voice, which is not a kind of uncommon thought for me.
When I see the unique behavior of other humans,
I may very likely feel, often anyway, that I'm seeing something of myself that just doesn't get expressed,
but is inside me nonetheless.
And I went home and wrote what I thought was my first poem, and probably shortly thereafter I became really...
I had always been interested in experimental music and aleatoric music.
I don't know the exact definition of aleatoric, but I think it may mean sort of without technical method
or without reference to or consideration of formal music theory or something like this.
Random, right? Accidental.
I had noticed in art that took this principle into its inaction and embodiment,
I had noticed strange threads that looked to me...
Someone just passed me wearing a uniform that I think belongs to the Communist Party.
Perhaps I should pay attention to what's actually going on.
In any case, I had noticed threads that implied links between the non-ordinary nature of human consciousness and the art.
And these would include things that were paratelopathic, highly influential, or perhaps prophetic,
meaning that they had a non-ordinary relationship with time.
And I was very interested in these features.
I had long believed that science fiction writers, some of them anyway, were employing a form of encryption
and that underneath their stories were actual principles that could liberate other humans.
Now, of course, this was the conscious intent of many science fiction authors.
That's a branch of literature, an articulation where the prophets would naturally hide because it's safe there.
If they're actually visionary, science fiction writing is a good place to hide, or fantasy writing,
or writing of the kind that Burroughs did, which was...
So Burroughs was very concerned with warping cognition in various ways
and understanding how consciousness could be focused or refocused.
He was also very interested in non-ordinary aspects of human awareness and experience, particularly telepathy and precognition.
And what he did as an author probably, you know, it's unclear to me whether...
Let me put it this way.
I think William S. Burroughs was an engineer.
I think he knew he was an engineer.
I don't think he called himself that. There were better things to call oneself publicly.
What did he engineer?
He engineered linguistic drugs.
It has the same effect, right?
He could produce language in such a fashion as to hook certain faculties of consciousness and directly manipulate them,
not necessarily to produce an expected result, though I think he was capable of that.
He was certainly capable of writing copy, for example, in the sense of copywriters,
the people who encode the agendas of advertisers in language.
And similarly, propagandists.
These are two places where everyone agrees that the goal is to manipulate and reshape human awareness,
thought, concern, attention, motivation, and so forth.
I'm certainly capable of this, and I had been fascinated with the surrealists who had an entirely dissimilar orientation.
In a sense, they worshipped accident and what?
The dreaming mind, the escape from logic, a kind of jailbreak of rationality.
They had also discovered that language, when bent to purposes other than the public and social structuring of human behavior,
which is most of what it's for, believe me.
And by the way, awareness is a behavior.
Awareness, it turns out, for it to be in any way powerful and useful and good, it has to be trained.
And if it's not trained, it tends to collapse down various stairwells into low-energy states with bad result for the minds involved
and the people, because it's miserable to be in that state.
Unless you're so bereft, there's certain kinds of catastrophic impoverishment, so to speak, that are so bad that you can't tell your bad off.
And I can't speak to how that is, really.
Hopefully, I won't become an expert on the results of such devastating thefts of human interiority.
But the weird thing about human interiority is, it's part nature, right?
Part of the power of your awareness comes with you into human birth, your human birth, your specific body, and so on.
But a lot of it, and in some ways, most of it, is how rich is the culture in which you come up, so to speak.
And when that culture is rich and magical, human minds blossom.
And when it's pragmatic, utilitarian, slave-making, prison-eering, war-mind, courtroom-mind, so forth, money-mind, it's fucking miserable.
Now, you do get some humans in the bad context who don't give a shit, right?
They're going to go for the mountaintop at any cost, at all costs.
And most of them will get somewhere near it if they're not just snuffed somehow by fate.
And you also have the opposite, right?
You have people born into astonishing, rich culture who don't actually become...
Yeah, this gets into the problem of human developmental tears.
That's really interesting.
And how uncommon it is for us to traverse many tears of our developmental potential in any given human lifetime.
Some of us will traverse many, some few.
Some will make great leaps in latter life, some will make most of their leaps in early life.
Because every human being is different.
So what I'm saying is, yeah, there are those two who having a great context to grow up in doesn't really lift them much.
They're not able to make use of that lift.
You know, sometimes human development becomes a bit of a grudge match.
This is a bit more common for men where they're really angry about something.
They've experienced and witnessed profound injustice.
Or just a total lack of any kind of reassuring, nurturing richness in the social, intellectual, cognitive, relational, behavioral contexts they come up in.
And that can infuriate them in a way where they just become absolutely determined to either exceed or escape that context.
Sometimes very difficult circumstances produce profoundly, developmentally skillful individuals.
So probably around my 22nd or 23rd year, I have become interested in how language, I didn't yet realize what a profound...
This is the early days of my mad scientist of language experiments.
And I know that Burroughs was doing something very similar, right?
He was experimenting.
In a sense, what he was doing was a kind of gain of function research on the codings that could produce altered states of awareness or ability in human beings.
And it's weird because in the same way that the surrealists created really a new form of art and new forms of writing
that obeyed something that wasn't merely structure or form and had no...
It's guiding principles were visionary rather than articulate.
The stuff was really a bit, again, like a psychotropic drug or a psychedelic drug.
And what Burroughs was doing was he had discovered through experiment that language was a technology.
And whether or not it was true, it was certainly as if that technology did not...
There was plenty of evidence once you start to examine the technology for the influence of non-human intelligences on its origins and its function.
So Burroughs was an experimentalist in this sense.
And when Geissen introduced him to what is called the cut-up method, and I want to comment on this briefly,
there are many different ways to employ this method.
You could take the pages of a printed book, slice the page out, slice the lines out so you have separated lines,
and then cut those lines randomly or at word boundaries, occasionally, something like this.
Put that all in a hat, draw them out and read them.
It's a way of introducing randomness, but it's not merely randomness that gets introduced.
Even if you are quite meticulous about attempting to accomplish that, you will discover in your own way,
as you relate with this stuff that you might say your mind is made of in a sense,
a layer of your mind is certainly imprinted with all of this representational...what?
It's a perilinguistic substrate underneath the language that...the languages you may actually speak and understand.
Burroughs found ways to play inside the cut-up method so that you're partially...and so did I, eventually, with extremely surprising results.
So, how to put this?
Burroughs was doing gain-of-function research on little chunks of code that would naturally assemble themselves.
A gravelly voice. It's tricky.
Okay, so you know how origin of life people, right? They put together these sort of soups.
And they may put them together intentionally.
They may put a recipe together.
And then subject it to transformative energies and so on.
You know, in beakers or in bubble spheres or whatever they're doing to attempt to produce...
attempt to understand what the state change from chemistry, quote-unquote, to organisms is and how that happens.
It may be that it doesn't happen and they're probably not considering that.
Otherwise, they wouldn't be doing that research, but that's soup, right?
If you took a bunch of chunks of RNA and DNA and you stirred them up and the chunks were of the right structural valence
and the electromagnetic capacity for those chunks to bond up was somehow provided for.
Well, I think what you'd get is a mess.
But some people might imagine that life could emerge under such conditions as a state change in the chemistry.
Burroughs was looking for something very similar in language.
You realize that if you swim, you swarm these chunks together, little bits of thought, concept, gnome and clature,
you begin to be able to see a landscape underneath ordinary language or above it.
And that stuff is highly charged.
And one might say parahipnotic, it has the capacity to restructure consciousness.
Now, if we were looking for someone to help us restructure consciousness in this way,
we might not want to pick burrows, but he'd be a great teacher for us to see one of the exemplars of a student of this process.
And also we could say a founding father of a certain kind of meta or paralinguistic play.
So around the time I was maybe 23 or 24, I came across a guy walked into my music store one day
and he looked really straight-laced, kind of clean-cut, tall guy, very short hair, glasses.
His name was Gary Paolini, and we embarked on a series of paralinguistic, psycholinguistic adventures.
I think he's the one who really, his sharpness of his creative and poetic sensibilities dramatically influenced my mind.
And our friendship was one of the most creative relationship I've ever had.
Absolutely brilliant.
And a student of burrows, there were many other authors who influenced him,
but the stink of burrows was certainly on his fingertips, so to speak.
And it was also profound to have a companion with whom, like, who could understand the experimental context
and the profundity of some of the results we produced together, and often for each other.
I mean, in some ways, in the relationship, there was kind of an audience of one.
We often wrote or made sound art together and for each other, or we wrote in an attempt to acquire the what?
Not really the praise, but the enthusiasm of each other, right?
Like, how did you do this?
I remember a piece he wrote that was kind of a cut-up method called Fertile Nest of Pain.
You can see how that, even the title, echoes a kind of Borosian sentiment,
which you can hear the flavor of in the title of a book he wrote with Kerouac, probably the first thing he ever wrote,
called, and the hippos were boiled in their tanks.
If you want to get a taste of Boros, and you haven't yet, probably my favorite book of his, though I love a lot of his short works,
I would recommend getting a book of his shorter works.
There's something called The Third Mind with Gison.
Brian Gison, I think, gave Boros the key, in a sense, to immortality, if he gave him the cut-up method.
And I don't know, it's not an unnatural thing to conceive of, right, the cut-up method.
It had already been clear to me that I could randomly select words or phrases and string them together in consciousness,
to interesting result, particularly if I had a good sense of what sort of character or flavor of the result,
