Hey everybody, thanks for joining me.
Evening here in the garden today, I have my new Gucci earring, it's the latest fashion,
very expensive, hard to get, you have to, there's a waiting list, a mile long, you gotta know
somebody to get one of these, and not just somebody, you gotta know the person, the one.
So if you got one of these, well you can finish that sentence for me in your own mind.
And it is still, profoundly beautiful and live, today.
It's astonishing how pervasive and diverse and, in my view,
from my felt sense of being, since I was a small child, not things I made up when I
grew up and learned language, but since I was a child, I could trust living beings, plants,
animals, insects, fishes, snakes, lizards, spiders, centipedes, raccoons, parakeets, catfish,
toads, turtles, tortoises. I never met gazelles and cougars and elephants and rhinoceroses,
and eventually I got to meet an octopus or two. But when I was with them, I felt something,
there was an oxygen there that was missing, from my relationships with the humans, and from the
humans' relationships with each other, and from the humans' relationships with living places and
living beings and things. And it was very confusing as a little child, even though I think I already
understood something of this. I couldn't articulate it, I couldn't say any much about it.
I had the great good fortune to be born gentle. I think my father thought this was a kind of
terrible curse, coming from his background in the times he lived in. Even then, he would not have
certainly been right, but he would have been more on the right side of the issue, more on the correct
side of all these words. I don't trust any of them. And so when I saw living beings, anything at all,
an ant, a snail, an earwig, a roly-poly, a harvestman spider, a butterfly, a caterpillar,
I might as well have been religious because it was as if I was looking through a living doorway
into the place where all beings come from, and a place where they're all together always, and
there's no other way to be. And I'm a little surprised at the moment to have to struggle to
maintain my composure. And maybe it would be smart if I didn't, but I'm not sure how my listeners
will be assisted by watching me collapse into a mushy, teary, weepy, childlike, gentle,
adoring human being.
I don't always think about, well, what will be served if I do that since such. But in this case,
I want to stay coherent. And I won't be coherent if I start singing from the place that I'm speaking of.
On a good day, I'd be poetic.
On a better day, I'd be singing and poetic and crying. In any case,
back to the matter at hand, these living beings. It was very confusing to be in the world in this way,
and one thing that became rather immediately apparent to me was that nearly none
of the other males were like this at all. Not zero. Given access to some cohort like my
elementary school, right, I could find one or two, not necessarily in my age group,
that were inclined to be gentle.
And they were sensitive not because
we are supposed to be, or
they were sensitive to the livingness of other
organisms with the kind of reverence and respect and fear, too.
But it wasn't to put on. In fact, it's a really tough thing to simulate or mimic.
If you're with someone who's authentically sensitive to living beings,
be tough to mimic. There might be some extremely skillful sociopathic to pull it off.
I've not seen anything like that. Perhaps it doesn't really matter.
It can be badly mimicked, all kinds of ways.
And I never had the feeling which was the projection from the adult
human world, the layers of human culture, and the
flavors of that had gotten into the adults that I actually had contact with, or directly,
or through media, or television, or whatever.
There's this peculiar question in English that we might want to pay a little more attention to
under some circumstances.
What's gotten into you?
And as an Italian, I'm going to add a little codosil to that.
And what the fuck did it have to push out of the way to get there?
So I can mimic my father's sort of serious East Coast Italian thing,
and maybe there's even a little piece of it inside me.
I think there's little pieces of everybody inside me.
So which leads off onto the bridge topic of do we have different kinds of minds,
and can we cultivate different kinds of minds?
And of course, yes, I think to both, the idea that we have a single mind doesn't make sense.
The idea that there are hard divisions is also confusing,
something more peculiar and perhaps more nuanced as a foot.
But when I saw the living beings, the little insect, the bee,
and of course, you encounter these things through two lenses, right?
One is sort of the original self as the child, the animal of you,
learning what it means, for example, without any words being involved at all.
That if I touch the small insect, I may wish to pet it because that's
that's what I learned in my culture was to express love by petting things.
So I wanted to pet fish, right?
I wanted to pet frogs, not good for frogs to be petted.
I wanted to pet anything.
I wanted to touch it.
I wanted to hold it.
And of course, you know, this resulted in in case someone accidentally gets the idea
that my walk in nature has been just filled with wonder and beauty.
Nothing likes that.
That's not, yes, actually, if I stop and think about it, there's a broad landscape of that.
But there's also a broad landscape of me being either catastrophically stupid,
too frightened to participate in the way, you know, in the door that has opened for me.
And so I turn it into some other kind of door and then relate with that thing
to disastrous consequences often, particularly for other living beings.
To that list, I can add ignorance, even
well, I probably needn't bear my soul here.
Let's just say that the entire range
of how humans are with living things,
I have not explored, but the beautiful and the accidentally catastrophic
and the killing of other living things I have explored.
But when I was very small,
I had a lot to learn because in my mind, there was this incredible wonderment,
which to me felt precisely synonymous with safety and truth, these two things.
Like this is more, the caterpillar is more true than anything my mom ever said.
It's a really simple thing.
It's true in an entirely different, it has dimensions of truth.
Language shall never approach.
The ant, any small creature, and it's alive.
So it's not just a library of sort of,
we lack non-religious language that could lead us in the right direction about
the nature, the actual nature of organisms or their accessible nature.
But trying to touch them was a bad idea and trying to keep them was a bad idea.
I thought, I had to bring, to keep the organism with me, I had to bring the organism with me.
So I fell in love with some minnows one day when we were fishing and
because I really wanted to take them with me, I put them in my pocket.
And mostly forgot about them until, you know, I don't know, I was four or five or something
until an hour later.
So along with my wonderment, there's some naivete and other things.
And eventually I came to understand
that while this wasn't entirely special to me,
it was uncommon among the adults.
The adults had long ago become more or less pragmatic
and confused and they taught their children and influenced their children and each other and
everything to keep relating with living beings as lesser things.
And this is one of the things I wanted to share was that
when I was little,
before concepts and traditions about human superiority intruded on my awareness,
it was extremely common for me to have experiences of other living beings and just
watching the hawk fly in sunset light.
They do a lot of sort of tail adjusting, wiggling
when they land and it's not merely balancing, something profound going on there,
broke my train of thought.
So when I was young, I wasn't trying, I was, I had a purpose in being participating with
living things. I was profoundly curious but also like madly in love and just astonished
as if I came from a planet that was very poor, right? As if I had come to this world
from a planet where only the simplest forms, still profound and beautiful nonetheless,
but only the simplest forms of life could struggle to emerge and sustain themselves.
As if I'd come from a planet like that and been born here with somehow with some memory in my bones
of my other home so that I could see the incredible diversity of life and the communion of life
from a perspective of having been extremely impoverished of this.
And valuing it maybe above well any common thing.
And it was, it got me into trouble occasionally but there was another thread that I didn't quite
get to soften properly which was there were not a lot of gentle boys
and mostly unless you had some really shiny other assets, you couldn't get away with being a gentle
boy in my, you know, in my time of growing up.
If you had some other assets that, that one you sort of, you know what to call it,
that one you the admiration of the cliques or, you know, little subcultures that you managed to bond
with members of or be included in, then that might protect you from scorn even though you'd
probably get some trouble about it anyway. And there was tons of pressure to toughen up and be a man
and, you know, all of this kind of thing and there still is. In fact, just as a side note,
if you really want to terrify like an adult male American human being, start crying as a guy,
right, at beauty for example. I've never seen looks of fear on men's faces.
I mean, it must, maybe it's some kind of powerful weapon that I haven't discovered,
I don't think that's actually true, but yeah, men can become very confused if another man
begins to cry at beauty unless this is common. Either they've preserved it themselves or their
familiar cohorts are either okay with it or, you know, celebrated or however it gets treated in the
social situation. But yeah, I wasn't, I completely got away with being gentle. I was super lucky.
I not only had this raw sensitivity to the beauty of living things and sort of self-recognizing.
This is the thing I was going to say earlier.
I was so in awe of the small creatures particularly because they were the creatures I had most
access to. By the time I was a child, most of the common animals other than birds,
with the exception of a few reptiles and amphibians were gone, and DDT in the 70s wiped out.
At least that's, I'm presuming maybe it's a combination of things, more likely a combination.
But the use of DDT in the 70s wiped out all the little creatures that I used to know,
pretty much all of them. There used to be 30 or 40 species of amphibians in my grandmother's
small backyard. Ten years later there were four. Ten years later there was one or two occasional
interlopers and lots of insects and birds. This is one of my, one of my friends. So what I was
going to say was, and I'm bird walking a bit, forgive me for not keeping a tight focus at the
moment, I was so overwhelmed with joy and I saw insects and
nutes and lizards and snakes, frogs, and I didn't get to see them often. Not the, like the more
exotic of them. Snakes were pretty exotic. I could find some frogs once in a while or a toad
maybe a skank, a bluebelly lizard, but snakes were rare and kind of mythic encounters for me.
And each creature had some unique, it wasn't just like, oh it's a living thing, it's that
each creature had some unique like inner form or essence that communicated it, that was accessible
to my awareness in a way perhaps unique to me. So I was at once, I think this is an incredible
blessing to have to be born with something like this being natural to me and also to have had parents
who, at least my mother encouraged it deeply and I think was charmed by it. My father was
much touchier about the whole thing because obviously his job is to ensure that I can become
a man and he was extremely concerned that my sensitivities would
hobble me. It's a complex story there. My point however is that the
the unfettered joy and reverence and wonder with which I beheld
the praying mantis, little Chinese green mantis in my backyard,
placed me in the opposite position of the one we're trained to think of ourselves as belonging to
in our modern culture so that instead of me being the advanced powerful godlike
creature, I was the child and they were the advanced astonishing, impossibly intelligent
and gentle creature and by gentle I just mean
the praying mantises don't attack me.
The bees don't attack me, the wasps don't attack me and when they do there's some things going on
that has to be paid attention to if they should. So I saw them as
more than ordinary beings and sometimes in the application of perspective
for the sake of intelligence and opportunity.
It is important to be able to be in, to be participating from
a place that is authentic, comes before words,
is rich with enthusiasm and maybe even some fear,
a place of not knowing, openness
and sometimes we want positions like this that give us, that return new forms of liberty to our minds
in our senses and most of the perspectives we are trained to enact have the opposite effect.
They amputate senses and perspectives and one of the things I was going to say is
we don't really have a word for how I felt the class of phenomenon that living things
belonged to for me because it wasn't merely organism and it wasn't god per se but it was a
meta being. It was like a more than human being or more than simply human as if, here we go.
Imagine that I'm looking at a caterpillar and most of what it is is hidden in dimensions
that I can't see from here. Most of what the caterpillar is actually
are not local. They're in dimensions other than the physical, they're in relational dimensions,
temporal lineage dimensions, all kinds of places where I can't see the body of the thing
and so the caterpillar could be like the tiny little living fuse of a giant mountain of being
and all of that being can appear to me as the caterpillar all the way back to the beginning
of the beginning of time. For there's nothing that does not share that quality but the living
beings are very peculiar in how they embody it and this peculiarity is part of what I was on fire
about and could not speak of then and must still struggle now to speak of. So I could sense
that the very tiny creatures it was as if they were gigantic in another dimension
and we being big it was as if we were small in the dimension that they are big
and this is the kind of thing a child could maybe even say almost I wouldn't have been able to
