electron microscopes. We can infect transgenic mice with the virus and they will demonstrate
pathological damage to their organs and circulatory systems and brains and muscles and so on, bone,
whatever. Cox postulate appears to have been properly satisfied here. Is it contagious? It's
wildly contagious. Why doesn't everyone have it? Because each situation is locally unique in terms
of inoculation, vulnerability, the virulence of the strains to which that place was exposed and
the particularly unique
characteristics of a given
infector, a given vehicle of infection, like a person.
Apparently some people are capable of spreading the virus much more effectively than others.
Effective in the sense of, you know, infective. Infectively.
Is it lethal? Well, many people who, there's a reasonable number of people who acquire the
virus that are killed outright by the virus. There's some other population who are damaged,
you know, experience organ damage and it's very early days. There's a lot more to learn. We just
don't know. So what we have to do in a situation like this, where we know there's a threat,
is we have to behave with best guess intelligence and people will have different perspectives
and opinions on what that is. But most of those opinions, they should not be informed.
Our opinions about epidemiology and virology, they should not be informed by politics.
That's cross-contamination of knowledge spaces. So they need to be informed by the people
who are best educated to understand and report on and provide reliable, you know, as
as reliable statistics, they're as reliable as we can get. And we have to be able to disambiguate.
We have to be able to distinguish between statistics that are as reliable as we can get
and that are best guess evaluations of a threat that is certainly credible
to make determinations about our behavior. Now, there are political aspects to the problem,
but I'm going to leave those alone. I'm here to talk primarily about how statistics are confusing
and that the fact that they're confusing doesn't mean we can dismiss them.
Nor can we really go shopping in sort of social media for the statistics we like best.
And this is another common thing that's going on. And by the way, all of this is related to the
behavior of formerly representational cognitives and what they do, you know, what they're,
what they, the purposes for which they employ mentalistic behavior
and their predilections to fall victim to certain kinds of habits or
contagiously virulent perspectives.
And I'm sure that what I'm saying here is complicated because
I've often argued that the word because most often begins a lie in English,
and I think it's probably true. Like that's the word with that weird, that weird quality.
Because part of what I'm telling you is both that we can trust and we must mistrust
statistics. And if you say, well, Darren, you're telling me to do two things that are in conflict,
I'm going to have to agree. But what I'm saying is the same thing that I would say about science
papers, research papers, particularly in non-mechanical fields, like biology or epidemiology or virology,
pathology. We have to get the best data we can and continue to realize that while the data and
statistics are wildly incomplete, and as that process continues, we're going to undergo probably
catastrophic restructuring of our perspective as we get a better understanding of the, you know,
the whole, as we continue to include more and more information and complexity around the
phenomenon we're studying. Here's an example. Originally, osteoblasts. Okay, osteoblasts,
I think, assemble bone and osteoclasts, I think, tearbone down. And we thought originally
and our research papers demonstrated this, that that was the correct way to think.
That the assemblers of bone were sort of the intelligent cells and the destroyers of bone
essentially just followed their instructions, the instructions laid down by the assemblers.
Turned out that eventually we found out the opposite was true. It's the destroyers of bone,
the cells that tear bone apart that lay down the signals for the builders.
This was quite surprising. We wouldn't have, you know, that was contrary to initial scientific
intuition. And we're going to see, you know, transformations like that in our understanding
of any biological phenomenon that we're using statistics to understand. Not necessarily it's
going to just flip over and invert, but we're going to make discoveries that were unexpected,
unprecedented, unintuitive. Now everyone has their preferred perspectives, but what I'm trying to
explain is that the fact that we can do research and can derive statistics does not mean the
statistics are trustworthy, particularly when they're done by amateurs who have little understanding
of the nature of statistics themselves, right? They're just pulling numbers from somewhere.
They're not actually running statistical analyses. And there's a lot of that going on. There's a lot
of sort of citizen analysts chiming in about the novel coronavirus. And by the way, when they do
that, they are not acting like scientists. Okay, here's the thing that's really important to
understand about science. Science is auto conflicting, which means that you don't set out to champion a
theory, you form a theory and set out to defeat it. That's the opposite of what citizen analysts are
doing. Citizen analysts are setting out to prove a pet theory and not conflicting with it at all,
right? So that's the least trustworthy kind of statistics you could possibly produce in terms
of scientific validity, right? So I just wanted to talk a little bit about this very complex
topic, statistics, and particularly statistics about biological phenomenon. Most of what we have
is extremely tentative. But when we have scientific research, at least we have the intention
to defeat our pet perspective starting out. That's where validity comes from, right? It doesn't come
from asserting something. It comes from attacking it from every angle you can possibly think of
until all those angles have been exhausted. And then you've got something that's relatively
trustworthy for the moment that may change in time. So I'm hoping that we can learn to understand
that together about statistics in general and how we think about and relate with and produce graphs
with and share these graphs on social media and, you know, attack other people's ideas and so on and
so forth. Because what's going on right now is a nightmare of absolutely clumsy methodology
that's grandstanding in public. And I mean, we live in a time and with a president
where lying is celebrated, right? The more you lie, the better it is. Just like the woman in my news
feed is like, I don't care if that doctor's lying. I like what he's saying. He's a scientist. You
don't get to like, I mean, you can like what he's saying. I can't stop you. But kindly don't go around
deceiving other people with your disease, you know? So you think he's cute or something. Good for you.
Don't tell people his ideas are true when he's lying about science in an attempt to validate them.
That's a really dangerous idea. And it's the kind of behavior that's become very common.
And one of the reasons it's become common is that the single male human being,
I mean, the idea that we would elect a single male human being to lead a nation is insane.
But the single male human being, I guess, I'm going to credit him with that description,
with calling him human, because it's only categorically true. But this guy, he's like,
you know, lie hard, right? If at first your lie doesn't succeed, just lie harder. And the reason
that can happen is that there are no consequences for lying as the president of the United States,
which is insane. And just, it's unthinkable. But it's a fact. And so what that's going to mean
is that all kinds of other people are going to adopt that behavior. It's authorized by the
president of the United States, right? It's authorized by his public behavior. So we're
in a very dangerous situation where lying is going, you know, in some ways, at least in many
dimensions, is going to have fewer and fewer consequences. And public lying is just going
to produce cults, little religions of, you know, idol worship, essentially, right?
I think, you know, I like this guy. I like what he's saying. Even when what he's saying is
blatant lies, right? So we have to be a little more careful, because we're talking, especially
in terms of COVID, we're talking about something upon which
the health of millions, the future health of millions of human beings and children
depends. And we don't understand this phenomenon yet. For this reason,
it is wise to err on the side of caution, not on the side of flagrant disregard of danger.
And there are many, I've seen many examples of people who believe that their opinion is more
important than the lives of other people. That's a degree of recklessness that certainly violates
the principles of intelligence and humanity, of moral fortitude and ethical integrity.
It borders, if not intrudes upon behavior we might reasonably call insane.
But it's fairly popular at the moment, and that's not terribly surprising,
as again, our president is the primary exponent of such behavior, and thereby authorizes it.
That must cease. As American citizens, we have to put an end to that behavior forever. We need
to make it impossible for that to ever happen again. This example must become the moment
where, by education, we ascend beyond this kind of crisis, together, within for each other, forever.
This noble corvid sitting on the stone, once upon a midnight dreary, while I pondered weak
and weary over many a quaint and curious volume of forgotten lore.
As I sat there, nearly napping, suddenly there came a tapping as if someone gently wrapping,
wrapping at my chamber door.
To spot the wind, I muttered. Only this, and nothing more.
Thank you for joining me. I look forward to our next adventure.
