B, B, A, and so on. Then we get more methods, but in general our people suffer from a flattening
of our relationship with FRC and we need help from people who have, who can and have actively
unflattened that relationship. It's extremely difficult for us to do this by ourselves
and the people who we revere as prodigies, some of them prodigies of being human,
like Jane Goodall for example or Jacques Cousteau, some of them prodigies of specific disciplines
like Touring or Einstein or Kurt Goodall, some of them prodigies of a nature of cognition itself
like Alfred Korzybski or Alan Watts. And we might claim there are prodigies of spirituality,
but I am skeptical of this for many reasons. There do however to be, there appears to be
something like prodigies of insight or awakening and what I mean by that is prodigies of seeing
through the mind, right? Prodigies of cutting through the mind and these might be people like
Dogen or perhaps in modern times John Tarrant Roshi, one of my old teachers.
And there are also perhaps prodigies of recovering the mind of the ancients within us,
but these are very difficult to point to. Julian Janes is one of the only easy examples. Bruno
Snell I think wrote a book called The Discovery of the Mind, if I remember correctly,
it's very important because we don't realize that it is generally common for us to believe
that a person who lived long ago essentially had the same kind of mind we have
and they did not. And part of there's all kinds of reasons why they did not.
The sun and the earth were younger and different. The ecologies were profuse and unspoiled.
Our people grew up during a paradisical epoch of earth's biological development
and the intelligences of the ancients partook of that unimaginable
profusion of life and intelligence, not the kind that we have, not FRC,
intelligence in relation, forms of relation that became forms of intelligence in the ways they
structured memory. Now, most of what I've done today is hint toward things, toward perspectives and
assets we contain and are unaware of largely. One of the astonishing things about biocognitive
hyperstructures is there are layers of pace, there are layers of biorelational time,
and some of the tiny ones are unimaginably fast and some of the huge ones are unimaginably slow.
Well, unimaginably, they're difficult to imagine, perhaps they're not impossible.
At the level of a virus, time is a very different thing from the level of a bacteria,
from a bacteria, to a tiny insect, a very, very different thing, from an insect to an animal,
a different thing, from a mouse to a cat, a different thing, from a cat to a horse,
a different thing, from a horse to a human, a different thing. And each of these infolds
many layers of biorelational temporality so that in a sense we can understand organisms as
productive of time. I am want to say that organisms and ecologies are to
time what stars are to light or energy.
Our behavior structure memory and the contexts in which we emerge and interact
instruct our behaviors. They encourage or inhibit, reveal or obscure
the potentials we bring to human birth as part of our essential humanity.
And so where those contexts are crude or mechanical, where they are domineering or enslaving,
or rapacious, or cruel, or vicious, or impoverished, we become blind. We become,
we adjust to survive within them. And by adjust, I mean we eject whole aspects of our potential
for insight and intelligence and creativity and humanity. And that is a tragedy we must,
I think, address together. First by recognition, then by understanding,
then by bold and urgent union, then by action, with and for each other. And the history and
future of life on earth. And when we act in concert with the purpose of underpinnings of the history
and future of life on earth, we acquire allies we cannot otherwise conceive of.
And in this direction lies hope for our species and for those people who will with great sobriety
recognize this. Why do I say with great sobriety?
Because we are also inclined to strange religions, to bizarre sort of seemingly beautiful
deceptions. I heard some people talking about the findings of a man who claims to be a scientist.
I've not seen his credentials. He cites some papers. His name is, what the hell is his name?
I even remember it. Hopefully not. This is one time when I really, I'm kind of glad I can't
remember the name. There's some video circulating about some guy with what seemed to be bold insights
about COVID. But when he cites medical papers, he's lying through his teeth. He hasn't even read
the papers. And he makes up things about them that have nothing to do with what's written in them.
And what that means is whatever it is he's doing, it isn't science. And he sort of claims to be God's
gift to medicine. But he inciting papers to support his claims, he profusely crafts falsehoods.
And there's people in this thread saying, well, I go with spirit. I go with intuition.
So they don't care that he's lying. They literally don't care. They just like what he's saying.
And this is what I mean by strange religions.
Science does not tell us the truth or identity of things. But a man or woman who uses it to lie
and lies about the science itself is stealing authority, right? They're attempting to steal
authority. And morally and ethically, that's repugnant. And this is why we should carefully vet
people who claim to have authorized insight. Now, science, I'm going to depart the topics I've been
orbiting here and hint hinting at, and I'm going to move toward
the other part of the discussion that I wanted to have today, which is very delicate and relates
with what I'm talking about. So this scientist, this supposed researcher, gosh, now I do wish
I could remember his name. I'll add it to the comments on the video. He claims that he cites a
paper claiming that it found that 42 viruses were found in people who had been thoroughly tested and
shown to be healthy, uninfected people, thousands of them. And yet when we look in their blood,
we find HIV, we find all these other viruses. And this is part of his really bizarre argument,
which, you know, like many sort of conspiracy theorists, there's a half-truths involved. Yes,
the world is filled with viruses. Yes, there are probably thousands of different kinds of viruses
in our bodies. However, he's lying about the paper because the paper does not say anything about
having any, it actually says the opposite of what he says. None of these people were tested
for pre-existing conditions, whereas he claims that their blood was thoroughly, that they were
thoroughly tested for pre-existing conditions before having had this analysis done on them,
and that the analysis found, you know, all these viruses in their bodies, and yet they weren't
having symptoms. Well, that's not what the analysis did or found. First of all, none of the people
were tested for pre-existing conditions, so the cohort included people who had HIV or HPV or
HSV or, you know, a number of other viruses. And what the goal was was to establish what the
virome, what the human blood virome, might contain. And what that means is not which viruses are in
your blood, it means if we survey your blood and we discover little chunks of viral DNA, we can
determine, with a modest degree of confidence, to what you have somehow been exposed in your
lifetime. That doesn't mean you got a virus. That doesn't mean a whole virus entered you. That means
that somehow little pieces of viral DNA got into your bloodstream, and that could be by viral
exposure. You might have had a disease or have a disease, but he makes the claim that the study
found, you know, all these viruses in people. Actually, the study wasn't looking for viruses,
it was looking for viral DNA. And it's very important to understand that when we test,
there's different ways we can test blood for exposure. And one of the common ways of testing
is to look for fragments of a specific virus's DNA or antibodies to a specific pathogen.
This doesn't tell us necessarily that there are whole viruses in the blood. In fact, it tells us
the opposite. The study did claim that it made some modest effort to look for whole viruses,
but that effort was not part of the study. So, in essence, this guy is basically just boldly
lying about the study, and he's lying about it in a way that he's using to support his pet theory
that is nonsensical, which is that all of us have HIV and HSV, and we have all these diseases,
and what actually is going on is just that our immune system isn't very good because of, you know,
problems in the environment. Now, again, half truths, right? We are, our immune systems are
sensitive to problems in the environment, not a joke. But I'm going to leave this topic here,
because it's not my purpose to expose this person's abuse of scientific literature or
authority. But when you see someone attempting to steal authority from science or religion,
you should have a moment's pause and be skeptical, and, you know, a little bit of suspicion should
arise in your mind, and you should say, hmm, why would they be doing that? Right? Why would they
need to steal authority? Why can't they just demonstrate directly the factual basis of their
ideas, at least statistically? And this is the topic I want to proceed upon briefly. I want to
talk a little bit about statistics. Because in our modern circumstance, we, so look, scientific
research forms a continuum between totally unreliable and very reliable. Einstein's theories
of relativity have so far proven astonishingly reliable. The theory of there being an ether in
the universe has mostly been disproven. Or, it's the other word, it'll come to me.
In any case, one of the things that's going on these days is humans are using statistics
to try to determine how threatening a phenomenon is or isn't. And there's lots, there's not really
too many terrible problems. Well, different people would see this differently. One of the,
Nassim Nicholas Taleb is aware of gaping holes in our relationships with statistics. He's not the
only one. And he's kind of a pain in the butt for various reasons. Brilliant though he is.
There are people whose headlights are so fucking bright that it blinds them.
And he might be one of those people. And in some dimensions of my own life, I am one of those people.
And that's how I know about that problem. Because I experience it with myself.
In any case, there are lots of problems with how we use statistics. And it's very easy
to write science papers that give the appearance of having correctly derived evidence
when in fact they did no such thing. As a person who works directly in a scientific
editing company with a neuroscientist, and I've been doing this now for 15 years,
it's very, I've spent thousands of hours talking with him about how papers can be forged, flawed,
and still get published, how they can fail in peer review to be properly disambiguated,
how peer review can be manipulated. All of these things are true. It doesn't mean we can't trust
science. It means that just the same way when you consider whether or not to eat a piece of food,
you're going to do some disambiguation. You're going to kind of sniff it, maybe.
You're going to watch the other people eating the food. You're going to intuitively have a sense
of whether it's okay to eat this food or drink this drink or not. And we have to do the same
thing with science. We can't just presume that because a paper is published that its claims are
true, but unfortunately we're in a worse position than that because most of us can't read a science
paper and determine whether its claims are true or not. We depend on others to do that and
the vast majority of us don't even get that far. We depend on people in the media to tell us what
science papers, you know, what research papers have discovered or not discovered, and those people in
the media are mostly either unequipped or intentionally spinning the findings
to produce a result that will get them more airplay. So as common people in the media environment,
we are in an array of traps and it's a very dangerous array, particularly as it relates
to statistics and science. And right now people are having little wars with each other
on social media and in their lives and with their families over their preferred methods
of thinking about topics, right? Like the person I said who posted this guy's video of this supposed
scientist and said, you know, well, I don't really care if he's lying, I'm going with spirit or
intuition, right? This is what I mean by religion. We have informational religions these days,
we have statistical religions. Instead of having the capacity to together
adeptly disambiguate information that we can derive from circumstances and testing and situations,
we have actually pretty much the opposite of that. And this is one of the grave dangers of the kinds
of minds our modernity equip us with, if you could call that equipping. It's almost a kind of
crippling attachment. It's almost, I mean, one other way to say it would be the kinds of minds
our modernity parasitizes us with. So what I want to say briefly, and I know this is
a radical change of topic from the pay in to intelligence and bio relation I was singing a
moment ago, but it's related because this is the shadow of, this is the dark side of memory,
right? This is the dark side of structuring behavior with our minds and structuring memory
with our behavior. We have this problem with statistics. First of all, what I want you to
understand is there's a couple of sort of precursors I want to introduce. And the first is that
statistics will never catch up to the situation they are modeling. And the second is they are
models, which means vast dimensions of any situation are missing from statistics.
Necessarily so. So if, for example, we ask a question, let's say the question is, here's one I
remember. How many birds are killed by power transmission in the United States in a year?
I don't remember the specific statistic, but I believe that it was in the vicinity,
and I don't remember even which year this question was asked at the moment, but I believe it was in
the vicinity of 9 million. So when you actually look at the study, what you find out is they
looked only at bird corpses found nearby power lines that, you know, on autopsy showed
electrocution. It should be obvious, even to the layperson, that those statistics are wildly
incomplete because bird corpses are food, right? And they certainly didn't find all the birds that
had been electrocuted. So there was some, essentially the study had a grasp on a pie slice
of the phenomenon it was studying. And if you think carefully about statistics, you'll realize
that this is always the case, with very, very few exceptions. If we have a really good grasp
on the context, right? Like, how many rocks are in this bowl, okay? Oh, in that case,
it's relatively easy. We can say, you know, there's nine rocks in the bowl. That's exactly
how many rocks are in there. But if the context is complex and all like nature and biology are
unimaginably complex, and this is one of the problems people are having, they think like, well,
isn't it strange that the novel coronavirus is producing such bizarre, such a bizarre range
of statistics and such a bizarre range of effects? Part of that is just the nature
of how humans gather statistics. And part of it is that we're nowhere near catching up reasonably
approaching the complexity of the phenomenon with which we're faced with this particular pathogen.
And it's not my intention to talk a lot about the coronavirus. I want to talk more about statistics.
So statistics are always going to have a partial grasp. And that grasp is going to skew
in various ways for all kinds of reasons that involve both accidents and intention, right?
Now, that doesn't mean we should dismiss statistics. Language itself does the same thing.
You're going to stop using language, right? You're going to be like, well, you know,
language leads us to confusion all the time, and maybe we should just stop doing that.
I wish you luck with that. It's plausible. I mean, monks and nuns have occasionally accomplished it.
I've had some experience with it myself,
the cessation of speaking or reading or thinking in words.
But we're going to continue to use and rely on statistics. And one of the things that's happening
right now is that, well, there's sort of two, I mean, there's not merely two, but I'm going to,
I'll go ahead and make a dichotomy admitting it first. There's sort of two primary
expressions of our modern, which I mean in this moment, right? Very modern, up to date,
today, yesterday, last month, activity with statistics, particularly around the pandemic,
and things like causes of death and mask wearing and so on and so forth.
One of those intentionally produces disinformation to create a weapon.
It's very easy to create a weapon using statistics and to get people to attack
each other or themselves with that weapon, particularly in this situation.
So we have intentional bad actors. We have accidental bad actors who either don't produce
the statistics properly or don't produce them accurately. And then we have, you know,
what I'll call integral actors, actors who are proceeding with the best integrity they can.
But even then, the statistics won't approach their subject very closely in general.
And there's all kinds of reasons for that. But the main reasons are that the topic here is
unimaginably complex and the sources of the statistics are radically varied
and humans are involved and those humans have purposes in mind. So what does that mean? We
can't trust statistics? No. It means that we need to be very careful about making firm claims
of any kind at all, except those of which we can have relative certainty. For example,
is the novel coronavirus real? Yes, it is. We can, you know, look at the coronavirus under
