Hey everybody.
So a couple of little housekeeping notes, reminders.
I don't expect anyone to find...
So I used to make videos in my house, and when I made videos in my house, the orientation
was wide, and the camera was far away, and you can see all my hand gestures, and I'm Italian,
so we kind of speak with our hands, though many other people do too.
So back then, it was really good, and I liked making videos in my house.
In fact, the story is more complicated than that in a way that I'm not at liberty to explain.
But there are some mysteries about me.
These days, I like to make videos when I'm outside, and right now I'm near where the
owl nest is, and I'm seeing traces of owls, and I'm also near where the other day I stood
on top of a yellow jacket nest like a complete idiot, but I like to make videos outside,
and so what that means is you get the sort of, yes, I could turn the camera the other
way, but it's much harder to carry comfortably that way, and even if I did that, you wouldn't
see much of my hand gestures, so it wouldn't help a lot.
So part of the thing that I'm here going to remind my viewers about is that you may feel
perfectly comfortable not watching my videos, but just listening to them.
Now I'm looking at the yellow jacket nest and the owl pellet that almost got me destroyed
by them, which I secretly covet.
I want to retrieve that owl pellet.
I came back the other night kind of near darkness with my flashlight, but they were still too
active for me to try to get that pellet with a stick, so I'm going to err on the side of
caution as regards yellow jackets, and trust me, when I say, I encourage you to do the
same.
In any case, yeah, you don't really have to watch these videos, but you might enjoy listening
to them, unless, for some reason, I mean, obviously, us humans, we are incredibly well
adapted or developed to respond to human faces, so facial expressions are hugely important
for us, and they are part of the penumbra of nonverbal signaling that is fundamentally
important to human communication and that gets lost in texting, which is a habit that
I generally abhor and am philosophically opposed to.
I might even be morally and ethically opposed, but one of the things for those of you who
know me that you will understand about my character and my choices is that I don't think
we're going to get rid of our relationships with machines, and underneath that, we have
an even more dangerous relationship, our relationship with language.
We're not going to get rid of those relationships, at least barring some unforeseen, staggering
catastrophe, which, you know, not entirely unforeseen, but barring some unusually significant
catastrophe, we're going to keep having both language and machines, but particularly, we're
going to have language.
Because a little more of a question, there's stuff that could happen that could end our
ability to create and sustain machinery, lots of different stuff, and some of that stuff
might be coming, and we might, weirdly, it might be the result of our having invented
machines, but essentially, in the present moment, we can't get rid of this relationship,
so what we can do is we can learn to be more intelligent about it, and be more intelligent
about both of these relationships involves understanding their risks and pitfalls in
ways that are far more significant than anything we can generally learn in our culture, in
our societies, and then selecting the behaviors that make us smarter, instead of what usually
happens when we use machines, particularly when we use social media, is that most of
the time, we get dumber every time we touch these things.
Now, you could argue, well, Darren, where's the research on that?
Show me the statistics, and that's one of the topics I hope to reflect on today, statistics.
I've been working with computers since the 1980s, when they were first introduced to
the common population, and I was a technician and programmer.
I learned C and Pascal in the relatively, well, I learned C right about the time it
was invented.
I learned Pascal a little bit after that.
I learned a little bit of assembly code for IBM 8088s way back in the day.
That'll date me for those of you who know what that processor is.
And I was never like, I wasn't a genius coder.
My first coding project ever was on an Atari 800 donated to me very generously.
I was so excited by this gift.
And my friend, Martin Peters, who now I believe works for Google, and I used to hang out with
these guys.
Martin Peters, Andy Cogan, Ray Latham, Gregory Ward, Greg was the least geeky of us.
Martin was an incredible math whiz, and he was so kind of, word I can't find at the moment.
He was a wrestler, he was a big guy, boisterous, very funny, in the sense of being kind of
awkward, loved these guys still to this day, they haven't spoken with any of them in forever.
Ray went on to become a microbiologist, brilliant fucking choice, Andy met a woman and became
extremely religious, which was the least likely thing conceivable if you had known Andy prior
to that, and wrote a bunch of Bible software.
I don't know what he's doing now.
Martin Peters works at Google, and has for a good, I think, 20 years.
But anyway, Martin gifted me with his Atari 800.
And this kind of goes to the other, wow, it's weird, I didn't realize this.
This goes to the other topic that I'm hoping to orbit and reflect on today, which is memory.
So the two topics that I have in mind are memory and statistics.
But computers, as you well know, probably, they depend for their operations on two crucial
representations of biological assets or what I would refer to as biocognitive assets, though
they could be thought of as biorelational.
Those assets are memory and storage.
In any case, my first program in basic on the Atari 800, back in the days when we had
to save programs to cassette tapes, though there were very expensive disc drives available
at that time.
The first program I ever wrote by myself without instruction in anything, really, because I
actually never went to high school.
I'm a self-educated person, largely.
So the formal word for that is an auto-deduct.
It just means, I think, self-teaching.
In any case, the first program I wrote was a Tic-Tac-Toe program that would beat you
if it were possible.
It turns out that Tic-Tac-Toe games have a dependency on the first move.
And I discovered this when I was attempting to build this program.
And essentially, I had to teach, not teach.
That's the wrong word.
See, this is the problem.
We think we teach machines things.
It is not so.
All we do is fill them with numbers.
That's not teaching, right?
And the fact that software and algorithms can improve their response to certain kinds
of problems that we pose them has nothing to do with learning.
It's not learning.
It's code.
It's sheer.
It's basically the manipulation of databases.
That's all it is.
It's the manipulation of databases.
So I built a database in BASIC using arrays that would allow the computer, then, very
primitive.
What are those things?
How much RAM do they have?
So RAM is random access memory.
ROM is read-only memory.
And then we have, and those are usually chips, right?
And now we have hard drives that are built out of memory that we call solid-state drives.
That means instead of having a disk for storage, they use chips.
They use what used to be RAM for storage.
And RAM has all kinds of peculiar qualities when you start thinking about it in terms
of engineering and physics and stuff.
And all of these things, you know, they depend on electromagnetism primarily, right?
So it isn't that there's ever a zero or a one inside a computer.
What there are are charges.
It's not my intention to talk a lot about computers, however, computers are technological
representations of aspects, derivable aspects of biological assets familiar to our human
experience, primarily the asset that is represented in computers is memory.
Now everything that we do consciously, and even all the things we do unconsciously.
So my capacity to speak and continue walking without having to think about walking, although
a few days ago while following this device around, I stood on top of a yellow jacket
nest.
Thankfully, I wasn't stung.
Got very lucky there.
Because I wasn't paying enough attention to where I was walking, but I can walk without
having to pay conscious attention to it.
That doesn't mean memory is not involved.
It doesn't even really mean consciousness isn't involved.
What it means is the tiny fragment of consciousness that forms the consciousness of which we are
aware and that we are aware with, like the part that is aware that we are aware, and
the functions, the activities or behaviors that we engage with with that, those structure
memory.
Now what we refer to as evolution, which involves all of this astonishingly impossibly
sophisticated ecological hyper structures, that can be understood as both memory in
that it's alive right now and being instructed right now, moment to moment, but also as storage
in that, now I want to be really clear about this, memory and storage are modest, extremely
impoverished little derivations of features of biological relation.
So it isn't that evolution is memory, it's that what we think of as memory is a representation
of a tiny little fragment, you know, a little pie slice of the continuum of the astonishing
array of forms and embodiments of meta-memory that organisms represent.
And organisms themselves are a slice of something we don't have a word for because we've never
well, most of us have never been anywhere near an experience of that, that of which
organisms are a derivative continuum.
But I assure you, there is such a thing and one way to think about it is time space, but
and it's possible for humans to have access to that continuum, the continuum above organisms
of which organisms are unique expressions and participating organs, yeah, organism, right?
It's going to be a little traffic noise here for a minute.
We can access this, but we don't have language about it because although we consider our
societies to be advanced and they are in certain technological ways, they're unimaginably
primitive, they're unexpectedly primitive in many other ways.
So one way to think about ecologies is the anciently conserved embodiments and relationships
of the history and future of life on earth.
And when I'm walking through these gardens, that's the holophore, wow, that's the everything
vehicle that I understand that emerges to my consciousness as what's going on.
When I'm walking in the gardens, when I'm walking in nature, as opposed to the city,
the city is more like a computer, the nature is more like a living being, a living meta mind,
right? It's that continuum that minds emerge as expressions of, right?
So it's the meta position of minds and intelligence.
Today, as I was standing near a tree, a squirrel came around the tree and because I was standing
so very still, it didn't immediately notice me.
And by the way, one of the things you might notice if you observe animals carefully, but
also insects, is that they will tend to track you with their right eye if they can, if it's
relatively reasonable to do so, if they think you are a threat.
And this turns out to be important. Lateralization in bilaterally symmetrical organisms, like
nearly all of the animals and insects we know, is fundamental to our way of being in the
world, to our nervous systems, and to our cognitive inclinations.
You know, it's such a privilege just to be alive as a human being. Of all the forms in
nature we might have experience of, the human form is unimaginably privileged in various
ways. There are some ways in which it seems impoverished. For example, we don't have wings.
And because we don't have wings, it's not likely that we think about the world and view
the world and understand identity in the ways unique to beings that do have wings. And different
kinds of beings have different relationships with wings. An eagle is a very different thing
from a hummingbird is a very different thing from a bat.
But we humans occupy a unique, apparently unique, niche in the evolution of life on
Earth. And it's an astonishingly privileged niche. Unfortunately, it's so privileged that
we are inclined to abuse it. And part of that inclination derives from our unique cognitive
nature, the peculiar advancements of our corpus callosum. What we usually refer to as the
hemispheres of the brain, which lie on the surface of the brain, and are both divided
and bridged. I'm sorry, I said the corpus callosum? I got that wrong. Occasionally,
I make mistakes in my videos and it's very embarrassing because you can't really go back
and correct it. No, I mean the cerebellum, excuse me. It's the cerebellum, which is both
divided and bridged by the corpus callosum. Or the cerebral hemispheres, right, is what
I really mean. The cerebral hemispheres are divided and bridged by the corpus callosum.
Sometimes I get so excited that my mouth is, it's almost like, like, like there's a race
horse inside me, right? And it races ahead. It's so much faster than my mouth. And also,
I want to slow down a little bit when I'm talking so that the experience of listening
is more soothing and enjoyable. I think most of us have enough tension in our lives these
days. So I'm going to try and slow down a little bit. But sometimes I'm so excited about
the topic that my mind is racing ahead of my mouth. And my mouth is sort of racing ahead
of my error-checking apparatus, although it's not apparatus, my error-checking behavior.
And so there's all these little problems, right, that I have to contend with. In any
case, I think of Earth in different ways for different purposes. But the ecologies I treasure
them above all things. There's nothing as precious as the ecologies of Earth anywhere
in time or space that I can understand. That I yet understand. To me, these are the fact
