that I live on a world teeming with life, intelligent life, all of it. Not intelligent
in the sense of being formally, representationally cognitive the way humans are, intelligent
in a far more astonishing way. Intelligent in the way that composes the symphony of symbiotic
relationships we refer to as nature when we mean living beings. That kind of intelligence.
And I think of the ecologies of Earth as what I will relate, what I will refer to as a biocognitive
or a biorelational hyperstructure, which means a multi-dimensional, living, transformational
meta-being. A being that is something that is more than a being that is the context from
which beings emerge. In the same way that a limb, my hand is a unique instance of a limb.
And organisms are unique instances of the biocognitive or biorelational hyperstructure
that the ecologies of Earth comprise. And those things themselves, that thing itself is the
limb of something even more astonishing that we don't have categories for. The closest category
that we have to something like that is divinity or supernature. And the sun, interestingly enough
around here, is the most easily distinguished, the most easily noticed or point-outable instance
of that which by its activity is inclined to produce
biorelational hyperstructures as a result of what it is and is doing.
So no sun, no mines around here. And that means that if you go upscale, if you travel up the
waterfall of origination away from Earth toward the nearest thing that is without which you don't
get mines, you find the sun. And so in a way, all of the minds and memory and even our language
and our relationships with it, they are expressions of the sun. They are because the sun is.
Now long ago, our language that we speak in the United States, the language that
the people who speak English speak is actually the simpler way of saying it.
I don't know all of its roots. Some of the roots go back to Pi, which is proto-Indo-European.
And some of the roots trace their origins to Greek and Latin. But our language is a bit of a
conglomerate. We've adopted words and ideas from a variety of cultures over the evolution
of human consciousness. One of my very favorite topics because I want to know
what it was like to have a mind, say, 8,000 years ago or 20,000 years ago.
And one of the most astonishing books, which for all of its errors, is still
exceptionally profound. It's the first book that really introduced me to the topic of the
evolution of human consciousness. It's a book by a man named Julian Jaynes. And hopefully I can
remember the title. The evolution of consciousness in the breakdown of the bicameral mind.
And one of the things that Julian kind of got right, even though he had parts of it backwards,
was that there are sort of two competing, two conflicting aspects, right? The same way that,
in a sense, one can imagine that the right half of my body, which is connected primarily to my
left cerebral hemisphere, and the left half of my body, which is connected primarily to the right
cerebral hemisphere, are in conflict. And it's actually that conflict and the negotiation of
balance between them that allows for me to be intelligent in the sense that we mean,
in the sense that we might use to indicate the capacity for insight.
Also, the capacity for engineering, and the capacity for the recognition of value, or, you know,
what is the way of saying more than value?
Empathy, altruism, love,
the capacity for love.
And when I see the living things, the living beings, my intellect is overcome, you see.
It is insufficient. It is not my intellect with which I love.
It is not that within me capable of dominating
and obliterating or representing
the classes and categories and functions and behaviors and likenesses and
catalogues of living beings. It is not.
My love surpassed all of that.
And though it was not my intention to speak about love,
raspberries, not yet ripe, but one day soon.
It was not my intention to speak about love.
And yet, love and memory,
these have a deep relation. However difficult it might be
to circumscribe or explain or analogize it at the moment.
Now, I have models that allow me to do that,
and they're quite profound, and they don't come from me.
They come from a place beyond me that I don't truly understand but have had experience of.
They come from a being beyond being that I don't truly understand but have experience of.
Or maybe it's not true that I don't understand it.
Maybe perhaps it's true that I don't overstand it,
which is what we really mean most of the time when humans use this word,
understanding. That blue jay flew right past my face.
Yes, hello.
And that blue jay is one of the heroes
of the biorelational hyper structure that is one of the most useful ways of thinking about Earth.
And nature and organisms.
But the Greeks and before them, others, whose progeny they became,
understood that memory was fundamental to the nature of everything that we know
and are familiar with as humans. Now,
human consciousness had to evolve
for many millions of lifetimes, and by that I don't mean millions of sequential lifetimes.
I mean millions of simultaneous lifetimes over sequential lifetimes.
We had to evolve quite significantly before it was possible for us to represent the idea of memory
in consciousness. And this is one of the things that makes us so dangerous
and so unique as animals, is that we have this capacity that I refer to as
FRC, or Formally Representational Cognition Consciousness. We use language, we have concepts,
we make maps, we explain things, we analogize them, we produce formulas, we are mathematical,
we can build algorithms. And I don't believe though someone might someday
make an argument that either appears to prove me wrong or actually succeeds.
Although proofs are very complex things because they often depend on a pre-flattening of the
context in which the proof is to be provided, right? So we have to throw a lot of stuff away
from the context before we can arrive at a proof. And some of that stuff is incredibly essential
that we remain aware of. So often when we produce proofs that provide insight, we at the same time
become blind, right? A proof is extremely compelling. It's so compelling that you might
lose track of what you had to throw away to get there. And that's a real problem for animals
like us. And it's a problem that very few people have developed effective methods to relate with
intelligence and awareness. But it's something that's crucial that we accomplish as human beings
if we are to truly embody the intelligences that are well within our natural potential.
This isn't to say that proofs aren't proofs. Many of the theories developed by human beings,
particularly those that allow us to build otherwise inconceivable things like atomic weapons
and supercomputers or quantum computers, are examples of the embodiments of principles
first proven in theory. It's unlikely that Alan Turing was the first human being
to have the idea of a computing machine. But he was one of the human beings who,
he's the one that we associate the idea with.
How ironic that he was persecuted and terrified by his
heart, by love, because he loved men, instead of women.
Memory.
When we use our minds, now see that language right there,
extremely untrustworthy. This is one of the problems with being an FRC, right,
is that we have language and we are inclined to allow it to lead our intuitions.
And even our intuitions can go awry because they can become confused by the profusion of
representations natural, you know, that our minds naturally produce.
When we could be said to engage in mentalistic behavior, I'll try that phrase,
even that one's quite dangerous, but I'll try to walk carefully.
Memory. We are structuring memory. And as we live our lives in the biosphere of earth,
we are affecting and being affected by the extended biorelational continuum of life forms here.
Our species is inclined to understand itself as distinct
from the biosphere and the ecology, the ecologies of the biosphere, from the
biorelational hyper structures that I would argue we arise as expressions of.
I consider that to be impossible. We are no more distinct from,
there are dimensions of unity within the biosphere that we have no language for,
and that are largely invisible to us. But we are more connected in these dimensions
to life on earth than my own hand is connected to my body. The problem is our minds cannot
conceive of it, cannot conceive of this. And many of the races of people who were our progenitors,
our ancestors, they had not yet proceeded so far down the tree of cognitive abstractions
that they became blind to this truth of our human nature. Yes, I will dare to call it a truth.
And so they left us traces in the artifacts, of course most of them didn't write.
They left us traces in the artifacts and the constructions.
Once they began to create artifacts and constructions that would survive over vast epochs of time,
that we attempt to interpret. But we do not see these things with the minds of the ancients.
And in fact, very few of us are capable of
recovering to consciousness the layers of awareness we carry within us
that are the endowments of our evolutionary ancestors. And yet,
the nature of our humanity allows, not only allows for this, but I would argue demands it.
We must. We ache to. We know there is a secret
carried in the seed of our souls or our essence and that secret wants discovery.
And I am lucky to have glimpsed it in my lifetime for so few human beings will glimpse it,
though they will know the ache. They will recognize that of which I speak.
Whether or not they've had a glimpse, they will know. These words will resonate with those who
understand the direction in which I point. And it's it's not a direction humans have language
about. Our categories, the categories of moderns, they're too abstract. We've come too far.
We've come so far, we've become blind to things so fundamental that it would be
that it would be unimaginable if we were to meet
a group of humans from 50 or 100,000 years ago, they would be able to see and show us things
within the living world. So astonishing that we would gladly dispose of all of our technologies
to merely glimpse them. And I know this to be true,
for I've been privy to such glimpses.
And not as many might imagine as the result of the use of intoxicants.
But as the result of adoration,
of love so pure, it rises beyond the capacities of words or models to convey.
Love for living beings, love for all the living beings in all their forms and kinds.
And that felt sense. I trust more than all my intellect, however joyful my relation with it,
however fierce my exposition. And that love is memory of a different kind. It's memory of communion.
It's the memory of a single origin, not merely distant in history, present right here, right now.
Obscured by the intensity
of intellect and modeling and language and habits of thought and abstraction,
derivation, distinguishing, relation, purposes that drive habits.
So I am fascinated with the topic one might refer to as the developmental evolution of human
consciousness. There may well have been a time, as Julian Janes argues quite convincingly,
in his partially confused book,
I can easily excuse the confusion for the brilliance therein hidden.
There might have been a time when it was impossible for me to understand myself as a distinct self,
when in fact the idea of myself did not exist. And what instead happened was I experienced the
urgings of what could only be understood as gods within me. And I had nothing like the formally
representational memory I now have. What I had instead was something so strange to us moderns
that it's difficult to describe.
I had a dreaming path in life
and was driven by urges from within whose source I could not name.
And this seeming speculation is quite profound and useful whether or not it is true.
And it is common that we can come across such things.
Truth is easily overvalued in a society that uses proofs to produce technologies.
Perspective, insight, the chance of seeing a thing from seven different eyes,
each one unique of purpose and derivation. This is a magic we mostly have lost,
though it returns to us to some degree for most of us in dreaming.
And our research seems to imply that dreaming is absolutely crucial to the formation and health
of memory. And where dreaming is damaged, memory is damaged and learning becomes difficult,
if not impossible. Now dreaming is one of the aspects of our experience that
where we can directly seek out mysteries and we can, it's almost as if the old,
the gulf between our modernity and our antiquity
in the waters of dreaming this gulf can be bridged directly, experientially, personally.
And that's profound and beautiful. And I encourage those who find my passions fascinating
and want to forge their own quest to seek in dreaming, but not merely for lucid dreaming,
also for its opposite, which we have no word for, because we can't say lucid waking,
that's not what is meant. What we mean is the opposite of lucid dreaming in that the dreaming mind
gently intrudes upon our waking consciousness
in such a way that waking does not merely collapse into dreaming,
much in the way that in lucid dreaming our consciousness intrudes upon our waking consciousness,
right, intrudes upon the dreaming manifold in a way that doesn't cause it to collapse into waking.
And for those of you who've been paying attention to my videos, you'll notice this
theme in the background of a sort of a cloud-like state and the work of our waking mind to
disambiguate that down to concrete deliverables, that is a bird, the bird is a bluejay,
this is me walking, making a video, right. There's this cloud-like state of ambiguous
meaning and identity and potential and our waking minds are trained, we've trained them
to disambiguate, right, to cause that thing to collapse toward concrete deliverables.
And that's a behavior
that we do habitually using methods we've acquired from our personal history and culture,
but those methods are the catalog of methods that we've been given.
Well, imagine if you gave your children an alphabet of two letters.
That's an analogy of the otherwise unimaginable impoverishment
that I don't even know what to say, I'm so overwhelmed.
That's an analogy of the impoverishment of methods
that we acquire from our common cultures compared to those we've accessed to.
And because there are no humans near us who
produce and distribute better methods, we tend to stay with our little two to three-letter alphabet
and as you can imagine that limits the kinds of words we can form.
I mean with two letters there's literally only two, well let's see, there's four words you can form.
Five, if we count, a few more if we count absences, right, but yeah, two letters, four words.
We'll call them A and B, so we've got A, B, A, B, and B, A, right. And
if we add dimensions associated with A and B above and below those
so that we have the A perspective on A, B, A, B, and B, A, and then we have the B perspective on A,
