Hello everybody, I'm here again at the San Francisco Botanical Gardens today and I'm
at the old English walnut tree, Jungland's Regia in Latin and this tree is, as you can
see, it is riddled with woodpecker drillings and I suspect that many of
these are quite old and it's astonishing because they go all the way
down to the base of this tree. You can see a few, right, even down here. So at
some point in history, and I think it's a long time ago because I have never seen
a woodpecker at this tree. This tree contained probably insects that the woodpeckers were
feeding on and it's astonishing. The tree is absolutely tattooed with these little holes
and it's a gorgeous and regal organism that I love. It's absolutely beautiful and I don't
know its age. You can see there's a birdhouse there. We have a bumblebee, which I've seen
many of around lately. Not so many honeybees, however. The two primary hives here, one of them
appears to be completely deserted and the other appears to have gone into some kind of state of
dormancy, which is very strange. I've never seen this before. There are only one or two bees
around the entrance to this hive, which is in that gigantic entrance cypress. It's in a crack in
the front of that cypress. And the funnel web spider that lives below the hive near the base,
the hive is about eight feet up in a specific crack in that tree. There's a funnel web spider
in the base, but it's hard for me to tell whether that spider is still there. The hive in the cypress
outside the park, outside the main gate, has been deserted for some time. I don't know what happened,
to it. Though both of these hives have been relatively severely affected by the diseases that
are affecting hives around the world, but particularly in the United States, that involve a virus,
and also a mite that infects grubs, I think, while they are still in the cells. The mite is called
varroa, and this causes the bees to be born. It causes a variety of problems for the bees,
I suspect. But one of the results is that bees are born either with defunct wings, wings that don't
work, shriveled wings, wingless, something like this. This gentleman here, Fred, I was just having a
conversation with. He's, hey, one of the landmarks of our neighborhood, and he was talking with me
about a man named Franklin Merrill Wolfe, a mystic who left Stanford because he had become too
sensitive for the city and its noise, and particularly its electrical pollution, a thing most of us
pay little attention to. We who are now buried in Wi-Fi and 4G and soon-to-be 5G networks,
that most corporations will claim have no significant or sensible effect upon our bodies.
I see this claim as relatively impossible, and while I'm not a conspiracy theorist, I am aware
that of the 35 trillion cells in our bodies, half of which are animal cells,
the membranes of cells are profoundly sensitive electromagnetic
gateways. And cell membranes represent an intelligence of impossible complexity. Our cells
themselves are capable of performing unimaginably sophisticated filtering transmission and production
activities with hundreds of thousands or millions of substances. They fold proteins
and produce all kinds of metabolic activity that is fundamentally sensitive to electromagnetic
disturbance. So it seems to me impossible that buried in the magnetic noise of our modern
electronic world, that our cells could possibly be unaffected by this, without me being able to
say precisely how it is they are affected. One imagines humans attempting to have a conversation,
however, a coherent conversation in a place where thousands of diesel engines are echoing,
and the impossibility of communicating in an environment like that. And I suspect that
in the domain of electromagnetism, our cells are suffering something similar.
When science looks for harm, and first of all, science however dependable it may be is very young,
when it looks for harm, it tends to look in one or two places. And there are many places
that our science is not yet sophisticated enough to examine, let alone detect damage.
Though I suspect that one day researchers will discover that electromagnetic noise is harmful
to cellular organisms, which are pretty much all of the organisms we know about.
And I live in a place now where there are, you know, 80 five-bar wi-fi signals
where I'm trying to sleep, right, where I live. And part of the reason I come here
is to participate directly in the old living networks. Now humans have never really discovered
anything other than molecular communications among plants and animals. However, it should be clear
that when sunlight shines on living things, and they reflect that light, they are transforming it.
So all of this that you see here, it doesn't have to emit or create
electromagnetic radiation in order to affect a medium in which signaling and reception is possible.
It need only absorb and reflect certain bandwidths, which all of things that are alive,
including this one, do. Although this one also communicates via sound.
This is a scrub j, what we call a scrub j. We also have, I normally have food with me,
but today I didn't bring any.
I'm not actually sure if that was visible. It's hard to aim my camera.
So, of course, everything here is communicating. Here's probably that J's mate.
Everything here is alive and is communicating in ways that don't require wires and ways that don't
require high and medium frequency EM radiation, like our devices do.
It's funny, a little while ago someone I work with sent me a message that
their browser had been compromised and they couldn't use it on their phone.
And in order to solve that problem for them, I had to have them turn off
their Wi-Fi reception and their cell phone reception for a moment
so that I could reset a couple of things on their phone.
And when that was done, the problem was solved.
There are forms of signaling and reception so foreign to our modern thought
that we'd consider them to be supernatural.
And this is a rather strange idea, this idea of supernaturalness.
I'm not sure when it was invented or where it came from.
But the meaning of the word nature depends on how we're using it and what our
agendas and priorities are. If we want to talk about spooky metaphysics,
then we'll pretend that nature is something like the aspects of the natural world
with which we are commonly familiar.
And then we can say, well there are these other aspects that we're not familiar with
that exist outside that boundary that we'll call supernatural.
And we think of them as having to do with something metaphysical,
with spirit, with the invisible, with the world invisible to the eyes
and ideas with which we ordinarily approach it.
Surely everything that is, is an expression of nature and is thus natural from one perspective.
And thus people can argue, well our cell phones are no less natural than these trees.
Because from that perspective of definition,
it makes rational sense to say this.
Yet it is not so.
For those of us who see nature as alive
and the products of us peculiar
tool using representational cognitives, we who make machines.
And machines and organisms including us are in competition
even though it's an artificial competition.
It's a competition that arises only because
we insist upon this.
Human beings, human societies insist on producing objects and technologies
that directly compete against our own intelligence, minds, and survival.
Now if we say that nature is everything that is and everything that is, is natural,
then, and only then, in my mind, can we say that machines and the things that humans make
are natural.
I prefer, and I think it's a very important distinction to make,
to think of the object produce of our cultures as artificial.
Man-made.
Now although we are animals, we exist in a strange between place in a kind of limbo
between nature and representation.
And if you leave this garden, when I leave this garden, I will enter a world of paved streets
and boxes, cars and machines, electronic transmissions and signals,
none of which are healthy for me to be exposed to or immersed in, and all of which
are competing against me primarily for survival, for reproductive rights,
or for something that simulates reproductive rights.
Cars do not reproduce, but humans reproduce them.
And if you look at a city block, you'll see a thing that resembles
a cell totally compromised by viruses.
You'll see this paved terrain surrounding the block, you'll see cars lined up all around
the block. They have something that resembles faces.
Then there's another piece of pavement, the sidewalk.
And there might be a little bit of living stuff, some grass or whatever,
then there's the structures of our houses.
I'm near a transmitter and it's, I can hear the hum of it, right?
You can hear the electricity transforming, literally, there's a transformer in there,
and I can hear, I can hear that electromagnetic activity because it is so overpowered compared
to anything around me. There are electromagnetic signals all around us.
The sun produces light, which is an electromagnetic phenomenon, but it's different
in its frequencies than the lights produced by our,
just looking, you can see here, these pollinating bodies,
right, which have fallen probably from this fir tree, and you can hear the call
of a hawk, and there was a crow chasing it, and perhaps you can even see the moon.
The hawk has landed in a fir tree in front of me.
Our world of conveniences comes with lethal costs,
that our societies are unprepared to evaluate, let alone cope with.
And many of the bodies that we depend upon to evaluate technologies are biased,
because they are funded by the people who want us to adopt them.
Genetically modified organisms, cell phones,
gasoline, distribution networks, combustion engines, all of these things,
and many others that I'll not hear name,
are the products of our supercultures and corporations.
And there's another domain of transmission and reception
that I think is important to consider, the domain of information, ideas, evaluations, analyses,
projections, predictions, concepts, language. Our species is unique in that we are formally
representational cognitives. This, coupled with our uniquely structured hands, changed us.
And we don't really know the story of this change. We don't know
its players, though it is presumed by most of us, that evolution drove the changes that resulted
in the animal we are today. We are still, as a species, quite ignorant. Sciences we know it
dependable, though it may be in the ways that it's dependable, is profoundly new.
We're talking about, depending on how you look at it, three to five generations,
a veritable picosecond in terms of evolutionary time. We've only known about DNA for
probably less than a hundred years, and the theory of evolution itself
is still very fresh, very new. So we should presume that 96% of the story is missing,
and we're prone to misinterpret the four percent we have our hands on,
as we often misinterpret things, that we've got a very small perspective about,
a very limited amount of data on.
Because our species is kind of egoic in a way, we're prone to make broad
assertions, predictions, and evaluations from very small amounts of data.
Now, granted, in the past, say, 50 years, and with the onset of computational technology,
our grasp on data has increased dramatically. But let's be clear, it still represents far less than
shockingly less than 1% of what's going on. And what's going on is so staggeringly profound
that in the entire lifetime of our species, we're unlikely to get more than a three to five percent
grasp on it. So most of what's going on is hidden.
It wasn't my intention to talk today about the things I've thus far touched on,
though our relationship with information was something that I was
considering speaking about. Because today, in the same way where our bodies are inundated
with unseen electronic signals, hearing these beautiful bird calls.
These days, we are inundated with information in a way not dissimilar to how our bodies in cities
are buried in unseen electronic noise.
And while we've always been exchangers of information, what's going on today represents
an entirely new scale of the compromise and manipulation of what I will refer to as the
human cognizium, the living network of all human minds on the world.
That network is affected, profoundly affected by our transmission and reception technologies and
by the purposes for which we deploy and employ them. And I would argue that the vast portion
of that activity is toxic, and a huge portion of it is simply false, or rather is coercive.
When we're born, we possess a form, a kind of intelligence that's capable
of undergoing profound transformation when it's exposed to language and culture.
It's capable of uptake, of taking up and formulating its own relationship
with language, with ideas, with concepts, with culture, with norms, with evaluation,
with authority, with judgment. And this process is invisible to most of us,
though some of us make our living or are habituated to explore it,
in a way not dissimilar to how humans may one day, if we survive long enough, explore space.
Though to be honest, I would rather see us explore this world, because in my view,
this world is a living library of the intelligences
that express the nature and transcendence of space-time.
I noticed the other day as I walked past this stump, an unusual phenomenon.
There's been a raptor here, and it looks like it was feeding on a pigeon.
I'm nearly sure that's what we see here.
And in some ways, this reminds me of what happens to that astonishingly flexible
aspect of intelligence that we are born with,
when it's exposed to language and culture, which complexify it by dividing it.
Our cerebral cortex is divided hemispherically, though there are other ways we can understand
the complexity, the complex anatomy of our brains. And the cortex is only a relatively
superficial layer, yet it's profoundly impactful, and its division is profoundly impactful for us.
Although both hemispheres participate in most of the activities
that comprise our, what I'll call our cognition, our sentience,
our left hemisphere is profoundly transformed when we are exposed to language and
very active when we are speaking, so that once I begin speaking, my brain changes.
And if I'm listening to language, my brain changes. Whereas if I'm silent,
even for a moment,
my body and my brain change.
Not so very long ago, I was in the,
I was in the old forest at Muir Woods. A friend of mine kindly transported me there.
Something that required technology, and cars, and even transmission technologies to accomplish,
though I might have merely walked there.
And in Muir Woods, there was this incredible silence.
And in that silence, I felt rejuvenated.
