For a moment.
I also recall a time when there was a vast power outage that lasted a few days.
I think in the 1990s here in San Francisco, and
that was long before there was wireless technologies.
And yet again, I felt in my viscerally this incredible silence.
And there's a signal that's hard to ignore.
Signal we call a siren.
It's the only thing we call that.
Sirens were thought to be spirits that inhabited an island
whose high-pitched, we imagine whose high-pitched sounds
drew sailors to their deaths or drove them mad.
There are, of course, myths about this that many of us have heard something of.
These are salvia flowers.
And unbeknownst to many, let's see here, there we go,
unbeknownst to many, you can draw one of these flowers out
from the cup of tissues that hold it
and take nectar directly from the flower.
And it's delicious and sage-like.
So today we live in a world where we're inundated with signals
and most of them are untrustworthy.
A lot of them are untrustworthy, whereas those that we encounter in living places
are of an entirely different kind.
It's not that we'll never encounter
conflict or disguise.
Nature is full of things that emulate or disguise themselves.
And in fact, animals for defense often emulate or disguise or look like other things.
The rattlesnake, if you look at its face, it kind of has three faces.
One that looks like a rattlesnake, one that looks like a turtle,
and a smaller one that looks like a mouse.
Praying mantises and other creatures have eye spots on their wings.
So that they can flare up and look like the face of a creature much larger than they actually are.
But this kind of thing is not the same sort of deception that we get from the news,
media, and our common interactions with each other in modern culture.
Our minds are an environment,
and it seems to me something has invaded that environment.
And the sign of this invasion,
is representation.
To make a secondary thing that is not itself relation
and is transmissible, encodable,
highly structured, sophisticated, complex, conceptual.
Here there are many bird sounds.
Sounds so unlike the machines that we're surrounded by.
I find particularly disturbing machines that sound like creatures.
There's a few places in the park where they've installed speakers that produce cricket sounds.
I find those deeply disturbing, and I can tell the difference very easily.
As animals, I think we're hungry for the signals and transmissions and
relationships in living places.
Machines cannot provide those.
Simulating those things is unhealthy at best and catastrophically misguided at worst.
So I'm very concerned about all of these things.
But what I was intending to speak about today is minds.
If I say the phrase a mind,
I pretend to use a noun to indicate a thing,
a separable, distinguishable thing that we presume is possessed locally.
For example, I might say I have a mind.
Now this is a simple ordinary everyday language where I might say I have something on my mind,
as if my mind were a table on which envelopes containing things could be found.
Many of our metaphors in English are quite bizarre and not much like those things to which
they refer, and this is part of how language and concepts and representation can become dangerously
misguided. Although I feel relatively comfortable saying I have a mind,
we might say I might say like I have a mind to walk down to the gardens, meaning
that my current mind state is oriented in a purposeful way to accomplish a goal.
The language is not terribly deceptive, but neither is it terribly accurate,
and that's casual language. When we speak formally, we have to be much more careful.
But what I want to, I'm just watching a hawk,
what I want to speak about is the idea that our minds are our possessions,
and I think this is wrong. We formed minds in concert with a family of some kind,
right, whether it was our family, or even if we were adopted, or grew up in an orphanage,
or were pressed from our homes into some kind of boarding school or other environment.
We formed minds in contexts with many others, and the nature of our minds is fundamentally social.
If in our culture we want to punish people, ordinarily we isolate them.
And there are varying degrees of isolation from modest to severe,
with what we call solitary confinement being the ultimate punishment,
other than physical torture or death, murder.
I've always thought that our systems of justice, what we call justice, are bizarre.
I've thought they're based on concepts that have nothing to do with resolving fundamental
problems or wrongdoing. Instead, they seem to magnify and elicit further wrongdoing,
in which all of us become complicit, either by formal agreement or passive agreement.
I do not trust anything about our legal systems. They've always seemed to me to be completely
misfounded. One cannot pay for a crime. Crimes are not based on accounting. They're not banking
systems, right and wrong. You can't put, like, right in the bank and get interest on it,
or, you know, wrong in the bank and lose interest, or there's just there's no way to pay for a crime.
And this idea to me seems completely absurd and hopelessly antiquated,
and the starting place of all kinds of problems, because it fundamentally
misconstrues the nature of relationships, and produces a bizarre artificial overlay
that we become infected with as children, so that for the rest of our lives, our minds become,
for many of us, sort of broken courtrooms. And that's a terrifying faith that no human being
should ever be subjected to. Yes, there is wrongdoing. Yes, there is kindness and good.
But accountants and lawyers and judges and courts and prisons are not the proper authorities
to determine such things to us. So I wonder if I can actually get a recording of this sound.
Let's see. I think I might be able to.
Yeah.
The sound of electricity being transmitted and transformed.
It's a terrible sound, really.
Something we might refer to as consciousness is being transformed by our exposure to media and
information. And I can envision ways of managing this process and
very intelligently structuring and engaging in it that are radically different and far more
beautiful than those to which we are exposed in the yet early days of what we're referring to as
the Internet. And one of the things that fascinates me is that I know humans well enough to know,
but they never really invent anything. They simulate things they discovered in nature or
derived from the observation of or participation in nature so that I know there's an intelligent
network that we're embedded in that we participate in unconsciously most of the time
that makes the Internet look like nat feces or even a strangely parasitic disease.
We have the capacity to establish something far more beautiful, intelligent,
and healthy than what we're currently subjected to. And one of my dreams is that one day we may
do so. And I have some models of what that might look like. And they're
shockingly profound. At least to me, of course, they are my models, so I like them. I made them.
It's a big job, but it's not as big as the work we'll have to do if we don't
do something smarter and more beautiful than what we have been doing.
Because what we have been doing is changing the nature of what it means to be human
or to have a mind. But one of the things I wanted to just touch upon is that we form minds together
unless we are isolated. And technologies that isolate or factinate our people are technologies
that damage, inhibit, or cruelly distort our capacity for human intelligence and beauty,
wonder, awe, learning, discovery, understanding, love.
It's my experience that we form minds together
and we form them according to our understandings of our roles.
In the contexts we can sense and become familiar with. And so if we are to have a chance to know
the profound potential and opportunity associated with our human birth, we must establish contexts
in which the unimaginable depth and excellence of our potential
is nurtured, recognized, called forth,
rewarded,
and fertilized, distributed, celebrated. We have the capacity to do this. The technologies we possess
today can easily accomplish these things. But right now they're largely owned by parasitic
momentums with agendas whose outcomes are fearsome and dark.
We live in a sense in the dark ages
of the onset of computational technology.
And yet it's possible that from this darkness new forms of light can emerge, new forms of illumination.
And one of my lifelong interests has been to understand
both how things got this way. What are the origins of these problems
and situations in our history and in the evolution of human consciousness?
And how can they be addressed?
And I can respond very meaningfully to such questions at length, though today it's primarily my goal
to just birdwalk a bit together around some of these topics.
I think it's very important to understand that we don't so much possess minds
as it is that we assemble them for purposes. And those purposes are framed to us
by context and our understanding however primitive it may be, however crude it may be,
of our role.
When the context is extremely narrow or limited, so too
our awareness, intelligence, and consciousness will become narrow and limited.
And you can see the evidence of this everywhere around us in the modern information economy
where corporations vie to harvest the attention of the masses by going after the low-hanging fruit
of outrage, divisive argument, factionation, false assertions, fear tactics,
and the occasional frosting of something either visually attractive, sexually attractive,
or photographs of nature.
I'm not sure we can survive, I'm not sure nature will survive the necessity of recording and
transmitting billions of photographs per day, preserving those, backing them up, copying them.
Everyone is carrying an extremely sophisticated photographic equipment
in their communications devices now. This is a recent addition to my own life for many years
I resisted it and I'm still resistant to it philosophically.
And functionally, I don't take a lot of photographs.
I think everyone else pretty much has that covered. But what I'm aware of that most people don't think
about is that those photographs are competing against the things we're imaging for survival
and the photographs will likely win. The energy required to take, produce, transmit,
back up, copy, modify, these photographs is staggering.
And like the onset of cryptocurrencies, nobody's doing the math about the energy consumption yet.
They don't realize that the things we're photographing can obliterate the things we're photographing,
but they can and they often do. And as time proceeds this will become obvious.
Even though at the moment it's a relatively radical idea.
So to the information that we're so busy gathering in unintelligent systems
and catastrophically misguided agendas is obliterating the possibility of human intelligence.
Certainly on the broad scale, though there will always be some exceptions,
there's enough diversity among the population, but some people will be resistant and others will
become intelligent by studying the problem and learn how to modify it, at least in their own
lives, if not socially. I prefer that we do it socially so that everybody gets a shot at sustainable
intelligence, sustainable roles, meaningful roles, so that the precious gift of our human
birth and life will not be wasted serving machines and representations and ideas
because unworthy of even momentary consideration, let alone implementation or preservation in
cultures or commerce. It may be that catastrophe will be required to help us
have a chance to restart the processes that currently assail our humanity,
our spirit, our essence,
the beautiful bases of our existence that are truly worthy of reverence and awe,
exploration and discovery.
But for now,
the world is at war.
It's a war with an array of invaders that most of us have not yet learned to recognize
because our lexicons don't have the concepts necessary to recognize them.
But please understand me when I say that human minds comprise a network
that network is an environment and in that environment
there is something like Darwinian competition
going on to dominate the transports that connect our minds
and to obtain reproductive capacities within those transports.
And that war, however invisible, is affecting every one of us.
Our families, our histories, it's changing the meaning of history
as well as determining the likely outcomes of futures.
We must learn to remember how to form intelligent minds,
contexts and societies, purposes and activities together.
It's insufficient for us to be passive participants
in networks whose primary produce is atrocity.
And we cannot expect the societies and networks to presently exist to transform
because when threatened they will most likely simply double down
on the structures they've already implemented.
So it falls to us to invent together, whether momentarily or consistently
contexts and purposes and agreements from which new kinds of societies can emerge.
And this is my dream and my hope.
But even this was not the goal I had when I began this conversation.
My goal was simply to highlight something very peculiar,
that minds are not local possessions.
We form them together, when we come together they transform
because when we come together we establish and change, we establish and modulate
contexts and purposes and when we modulate contexts and purposes
