the roles that we derive transform.
Everyone has seen a group of people in relatively common conversation
go for example to a bar, have a few drinks and everyone turns into a comedian.
You change the context, you add some intoxicants, people transform.
We can do this without intoxicants because we are humans or animals hungry for something I'll
call relational eros, the eros of relating with other minds that are both fascinating and fascinated.
And this is one of the key pivots noticing this.
This is one of the key pivots that can allow us to understand how to transform
the contexts within which we are currently engaged.
We can see what we've adopted as replacements for deep authentic relationships
and how those were adopted and how they work and by understanding those things more deeply
I believe that we can produce something better than intoxicants,
something as compelling as addictions are
without having to poison ourselves.
Something as compelling as play was when we were children
and yet as effective as science is at participating in or transforming the mechanics of a situation.
There's people here in different roles.
One of them is talking about technology and systems and email.
There's an elderly couple who are just enjoying the terrain and bird watching
and another elderly couple who are getting some exercise.
And I am getting some perfume from this hummingbird sage plant,
one of my favorite plants.
I just love the scent of it.
There's some mushrooms here.
It's beautiful in the garden.
Right outside this extraordinary amounts of traffic, electronic, physical,
informational, rushing around madly
with much noise and little positive effect.
There's so many phenomena in nature that I see that the camera absolutely cannot
capture. This is one of them.
There's an incredible play of light on the strandy
fur of this tree
as it coruscates in the breeze and it's exquisitely beautiful
and the camera may capture something
but there are so many features of what my eyes can do and my eyes can do different things with
this phenomenon not just one but the camera will never capture
and this is part of how we are deceived by the machines we've become the servants of.
I'd like to see us invert that relationship because I don't think we're going to get rid of
machines and even language is incredibly dangerous we're not going to get rid of language.
What we've got to do instead is become very intelligent about understanding
the threats and opportunities implicit in these two technologies both of which are
representational. Language is cognitively representational and machines are physically
representational. These things are very very dangerous.
Right now we cannot tell whether life on earth will survive them or if life does whether we will
the atmospheric envelope of earth is vulnerable and one of the best metaphors for earth
that I've ever encountered is that of a cell
if that membrane is damaged or destroyed everything here dies
but the humans are the most one of the most delicate of the organisms here all the complex
animals are delicate and the the complexly conserved ecologies which all depend on relationships
extremely delicate. Life itself is opportunistic and resilient
but even given that it's quite possible that the progress that our species claims to have made
could result either in our own annihilation or the annihilation of most of the complex life on
this world and what that would mean would be that our entire history it would change the
meaning of our history if this happens right it will it will transform all of the the human activity
that we think of as beautiful and intelligence beautifully intelligent it will transform that
activity and render it to have led to something catastrophic but the same is true if we make a
wise move if we can do something beautiful and intelligent together in our generation
and it's possible to to accomplish something so astonishing and beautiful that it preserves
the anciently evolved ecologies it preserves our human existence and thus renders the struggles
and battles of our history meaningful yeah so all of the things that we do today transform the
meaning of history as well as the future and this is a fact that gives me hope inspiration
wonder creativity and awe for I belong to life
and I am not a misanthrope I'm an anthropile I believe in human beings
even though the activities of our supercultures are terrifying and clearly abysmally misguided
and wrong we are perhaps the greatest single investment the living world has ever made
though again the banking terminology is not the right metaphor
we are charged with astonishing potential
but it remains to us to determine whether that potential will result in beauty or tragedy
I'm on the side of beauty
and I know you're with me in that sense
thank you for joining me
