Hey everybody.
So you got me on another walk through the city here.
I'll try and choose routes that don't require as much attention because normally, if you're
walking around the city, you want to be paying very close attention to everything around
you.
I was thinking earlier how cities are a bit like monsters that attract us with their flashy
fashion and style and then consume us slowly, hopefully slowly, over the rest of our lives
if we should get stuck in them like I did.
These are the local boxes with lots of square windows in them.
Apparently somebody thought this would be a good idea for people to live in.
Wow.
That's some serious confusion and idiocy in my view.
Though, you know, being protected from what's outside is important and prison walls provide
a pretty damn good protection.
What's on my mind?
Well, a lot of things are on my mind as if my mind were a table that could have things
on it.
Typography is really important in cities.
There's an interesting example.
We're seeing more and more examples of upside-down letters, letters substituted from other languages
such as Russian, inside the words, lots of what we might think of as experimental stuff.
All of that has to do with fashion, style, and representation.
That's one of the things that's on my mind right now.
I was recently up in Lake Arrowhead and a number of people there, I could say a lot,
if we actually did the statistics, probably less than around 8%, maybe less.
These people have statues of bears in the front of their house.
It's a mural, a mural creation activity over there.
I did a lot of walking at night when I was there.
I like to go for long walks.
I'm presently on a pretty damn long walk right now.
Maybe a five-mile walk total back from Mission Bay where I had an appointment with an optometric
surgeon.
I might have the lingo slightly skewed there.
If you can see it, I'll give you a peek at it in a moment here when I'm across the street.
I have a small lesion on the lower lid of my right eye.
Well, they call it a lesion.
It looks like what we normally refer to as a mole, pigmented skin.
They wanted to have a close look at it and they'd like to maybe shave a tiny piece off
of it and send that to the pathologists to ensure it's not a melanoma.
The need to ensure something isn't something else is a kind of a quirky idea, particularly
when the procedure involves making an anesthetic injection into my lower eyelid and then manually
with an actual scalpel shaving something off a little tiny thing on the outside of my eyelid
is already quite small.
I mean, I get why they're concerned about it, but I think they're mostly concerned about
it to make some more money rather than to protect my health.
So I don't know if that's going to happen.
We'll see.
But yeah, right now I'm walking back from Mission Bay to my house where I live.
And it's a bit of a hike, and it's a pretty warm day, and frankly, I'm overdressed.
So maybe I'll take some of this stuff off, hang on to my mask.
So when I was in Lake Arrowhead, I noticed that a number of houses had statues of bears
in front of them.
Most of these statues were carved out of wood.
And I know enough about representation to understand something of how it comes to be.
Most people have statues of bears in front of their houses, but would pretty happily
have all the bears exterminated if most of that's not already been accomplished.
And I think it has.
Remember when I first got there, my friend who lived there seemed really concerned about
bears.
And I was like, well, I'm pretty sure I'd survive an encounter with a bear up here.
It's not like you have grizzlies.
Black bears don't really attack human beings very rarely.
I've got to wonder what's in this old mask.
And I'm pretty sure a group of my friends, including Sutton Pearson, Gary Paolini, who
else, couple other guys, got arrested or almost arrested after breaking into this building
or won very much like it in the mid-90s, just for adventure.
So I suppose one could consider this a relatively dangerous neighborhood.
Here's the view toward downtown.
I'm in a part of San Francisco that people refer to as Soma, which is south of market.
But it could also be, yeah, it's south of market.
That's true.
So anyway, I remember seeing these statues, and it suddenly struck me that statues like
that are usually evidence that something's been exterminated or is dead by the time you
get the representations, especially the concrete representations that statues comprise.
Most of what their statues of is usually been exterminated, especially if it's an animal
living place, river.
Not that you can make a statue of a river, just a little glimpse of the neighborhood
here.
So I was looking at these statues, and as art, they're attractive, they're detailed,
they're impressive, but they are representations.
You don't need representations when you're intimately in touch with the as-yet-unrepresented.
So you know, you can't make a statue of a kiss.
You can't make a statue of love, though you can represent adoration.
But I was just thinking about how ironic it is that we humans wipe shit out and then make
statues commemorating it.
As if, well, you know, the dead representation is extremely safe, isn't it?
There's no risk, and it's also a commodity that can be traded, sold, photographed, appreciated,
aesthetically.
It's got all these qualities that might be a little difficult to attach to a live bear.
But then I was thinking of other similar kinds of things that we make statues of once they're
dead.
People we think of as heroes, I mean, I think it's a terrifying idea, but it's because
my sense of the nature of representation and some of the incredibly dangerous functions
it serves in our lives, minds, and societies is sharp, right?
That sense in me is very sharp.
So I'm extremely aware of these kinds of things, and even the way that we use language to represent
the unrepresented and what might otherwise be participated in intimately.
In a way, not dissimilar to when I hug someone I love or a kiss or jogging or direct visual
fascination with a flower, a tree, a mountain, the sky, the sun, the stars.
All of these things.
So yeah, I'm pretty sure that by the time we started seeing statues, for example, of
Christ, that whole game was in the shitter pretty much.
You know, by the time you get the explicit representations like that, whatever they were
supposed to encode has pretty much disappeared from common awareness, access, participation,
understanding, awareness.
And now what you're getting is kind of the leftover shell, right?
The wrapping paper.
And the humans like to trade that wrapping paper as a commodity of identity and identification,
pretending to understand incredibly profound matters that representations effectively in
near us to, right?
They stand as a buffer between us and the experience that they seem to promise.
So everybody wears a cross and some of them have little statues of a dead Messiah on them.
A Messiah who the people would certainly kill again today or he to re-emerge in our common
modern context.
And in fact, they probably have, I mean, in a way, the soul of every child is like that
Messiah.
And although we don't execute every child, we crucify their spirits on the cross of
modernity, representation, commodification, language, identification, all these shuns.
More boxes.
Apparently if you paint them really colorfully, people will forget that they're prisons.
Feels a little risky being out here in this way.
So vulnerable in the age of COVID.
So one of the things that was on my mind was the way that we, there's this strong propensity
to wipe out nature and the participated and replace it with images, statues, language,
clinical analysis, measurement, accounting, money.
After all, money is the representation of value, right?
But money is nothing like value, it just replaces it in all kinds of weird and many fiercely
toxic ways.
In my last walk through the city, I talked a bit about when I first came here and worked
for the GIA Gallery, GHIA, where we were funerary activists helping people to evade the essentially
organized crime family associated with the funeral industry in our country.
And today in my appointment, I was right over by where I first lived in the city in that
gallery.
It's over on Third Street, way out near China Basin, not quite there, mostly, I guess it's
called Mission Bay now.
It used to be pretty hellish back when I lived there now.
It's still quite sterile, but not as dangerous as it used to be.
Here's a view.
GIA, I think most of our cities are kind of like complicated monster traps that mostly
digest us once we're captured by their gravity.
And usually that gravity is, well, it's most often financial, let's put it that way.
Some of it can be relational, but I remember a couple of my friends moved here before I
did in the 80s, Tamara Freeman, one of the most beautiful women I ever had the pleasure
of kissing, and another rather strange person, one of my cohort back then, but a guy I didn't
get along with that great, probably because he was nefarious.
He was ethically nefarious in a sort of Machiavellian way, which, of course, is usually a clear
indication of some kind of insecurity, Gabe Prieto.
And I remember them both telling me how incredibly lonely they were here, and how it was just
really, really hard to make friends.
Even though back then it was pretty, you know, there was a lot of, how should I put this,
there was a lot of cultural richness and diversity here.
But as you can see even now, many years later we're talking, I don't know, fuck, 40 years
later almost.
This is a harsh place to live, and this is one of the good places, right?
There's a lot of noise, a lot of competition, threats everywhere, and, you know, coupled
with that some degree of enhanced opportunity, too.
If you know how to work a city, you can make a lot of money here, and you can make some
lasting relationships here, though I'm not sure any of the relationships that I've formed
here actually lasted much, and I probably have some responsibility for that.
Very likely, big towers, big prizes.
So yeah, okay, that was a piece of a tree that tried to get into my mouth, I'm not too
upset about that.
I mean, ordinarily I put pieces of trees in my mouth voluntarily, but you never know
when you see something like what it might be like that's coming toward your mouth.
Boxes and square, rectangles and structure, walls, impregnable walls.
Oh wow, there's CIIS, surprised they still exist, probably not for a whole bunch longer.
You can see their sign up there, deep inquiry, consciousness, eco-justice.
Those are soon to be exterminated virtues.
And of course, those are representations, right?
The word we get in the thing and we get in the word, probably mostly the word, right?
Not so much the thing.
It's a very sunny, warm day here in San Francisco, a city named after St. Francis of Assisi,
who was known to have a very special way with animals in living places, and I remember when
I came here, I thought, this is where I'll learn to be an angel.
Not the phony kind of angel, real kind, not the representation, the soul of the thing.
I halfway succeeded, at least halfway, maybe a little more.
Sorry about the wind, there's nothing I can really do about it.
For the moment, I can't escape it.
And this is where I am, 49 South Venice, whatever the hopeless terror that means.
So, once the spirit dies out, you get the representation.
Once the essence is used up, sucked dry, vampirically destroyed, turned into food or fuel or money
or poison, then you get the representation.
And I mean, it's not always true.
Not all of representational cognition and activity is bad or wrong, but a lot of it
is, and there's just terrible dangers associated with it, but most of us are completely blind
to throughout our entire lives.
And I, myself, was mostly blind.
I was, let's say that I was consciously blind in that I was aware of many of these things
peripherally but could not articulate them.
And I had to have a very surprising experience when I was 39, with a non-human intelligence
that exposed these ideas to me and sort of took me on a tour through the evolution of
human consciousness and language, among many, among many, among many other things.
And that's where my awareness became conscious, and I became able to articulate my concerns
and interests in these things.
So this is a pretty famous intersection, Market and Van Ness.
That's Sutro Tower in my neighborhood, way back there, a really terrifying radio antenna
that dominates the entire, that entire quadrant of the city, primarily though because it's
the only super tall structure there, Lighthouse Immersive.
Here's a place where you can see representations.
You go to museums, representations, right?
