The art gallery, representations.
The store, all the little objects, representations.
And those little kiosks, representations.
Here's some representations built right into the landscape.
Although they're very vague and blurry, they appear to be man on horses and cats and things.
Notice that there are no man on horses or cats and things here.
There are just statues of them.
Very blurry statues of them because they've been gone for a long fucking time.
So now the representations are blurry.
The girl is wearing a shirt that says, the future is in sight.
Absolutely false, unless what is meant by the future is what is directly in front of
you on your path.
But again, a concept represented in language.
It's very compelling superficially, you see.
But if you try to unpack it, it's either meaningless or just base lying.
Well, let's see.
I think I'm going to cross the street here, though I could go a little further.
Maybe I'll go a little further.
Well, nope, the light changed.
I'll grab this crossing here.
Four boxes, lots of boxes, lots of squares, rectangles, glass, steel and concrete.
These are a few of my unfavorite things.
What I like a lot is organisms.
And frankly, I'm kind of into girls.
And that is.
When I was young, I guess we always just referred to females mostly as girls, unless they were
matrons, right?
Unless they were like grandmothers.
But yeah, the colloquial term, his girl, in my lexicon.
And people often look at me funny these days because I guess you're supposed to be more
specific.
Again, this is another problem with getting too interested in language is that now you
have to have 12,000 different ways to say which kind of human being you want to be seen
as and spoken to as.
I used to joke that I identify as invisible, so if you refer to me at all, it's a violation
of my rights.
As you can tell, I'm not a huge fan of, I'm not only not a huge fan, I would say that
I'm openly opposed to many facets of the movement, a movement I see as primarily a
linguistic distortion movement that we call political correctness.
And though I would say I'm in favor of what was once called equal rights, I think that
idea is also very dangerous, not because of the idea of equality, although if you look
very carefully at the language, equality means an accounting process is being done, right?
And once you're involved in accounting that way, especially accounting about identity,
values and rights, you're already in a sort of, it seems to me you're already in a trap.
Yeah.
Sorry, I was just doing a little bit of window shopping there, because there is an object
that I need.
It seems very unlikely that I'll acquire it, but it's conceivable.
So for example, the idea that one could possibly mandate equality is pretty fucking bizarre.
And there's also even a problem with the idea of rights, because rights are what you get
when the social structure is so broken that you have to have this kind of discussion about
whether or not my rights or your rights or someone else's rights are being violated or
whether or not they are being fulfilled, right?
So in my view or in one of the views I prefer, I don't have a single view on anything.
I don't think.
I like not to anyway.
The whole conversation about rights is dangerously misguided.
Most people will have only those rights and no more and many much less than that they
can afford to defend in court.
And for the average person, that's nearly none.
So those aren't rights.
There's something else.
This is another case where the language is extremely deceptive, dangerously and toxically
deceptive, because it leads us to think of the world in terms that the world cannot exist
in those terms ever.
It never will and it never has.
So on the one hand, in principle, I believe in the ideals that we dance around with language
like equal rights, I believe in the ideals or maybe even believe in is the wrong word.
I affirm and value the ideals that the words equal rights are a kind of weird modern counterfeit
of something like that.
But you only get something resembling equal rights or rather you get something that the
idea of equal rights resembles in intimate, intelligent culture, something we pretty much
have the opposite of.
And that's not likely to change unless there's some kind of extreme catastrophe or disaster
that leads to the human population being decimated and us forming small tribal-like groups again.
Now I'm not saying that's the solution.
That's a grim possibility and it would take a long time before those groups had the sort
of luxury of becoming intelligent, compassionate, intimate and kind because for the first, who
knows, 500 years of that it would be a clusterfuck of domination wars most likely and struggles
for resources.
But it's possible to have equanimity and something resembling equality and small cohorts.
It seems to me unlikely that we'll ever implement that in cohorts like nations or the monstrous
atrocities we think of as societies.
See what's all that fluff at the top, right, these sort of, what are they, they're not
ensigns, well they're symbols of a kind with leaves around them and flowers inside, shields
and badges and bells and stars.
Memories of ages gone by, we've lost the meanings for those symbols to common awareness but
they probably had to do with loyalty, authority, virtue and maybe virility, fertility.
So in my last walk through the city I talked a lot about my friend Dan Davidson who committed
suicide and I just wanted to let anyone who saw that video know that I did stop by his
old house and had a moment of reverent remembrance for him.
The puzzle of equality will not be solved by mandates and in truth there's nothing
like equality.
The idea of equality is an idea that arises from the myth of the explicit individual,
right, that the individual me should be treated in all ways equally to another individual.
And there's certainly something important about that idea in a situation where the myth
of individuality is dominant, get ready, this is called the silly pink bunny statue,
it doesn't seem particularly silly to me, it seems very grim.
So in a culture where individuality, the individual is enforced, punished, rewarded, ignored,
subject to various kinds of usury and financial abuse and also other kinds of financial windfalls.
Certainly there's plenty of abuse here in San Francisco but if I were to go to another
country, a third world country or something, someone who lived in poverty here might be
extremely wealthy there because the American dollar in some countries is very highly valued.
It seems to me that while I am an individual it's true in some senses and that my body
is distinct from yours.
It's a seemingly separate body but we are intimately connected through context.
It's one planet here, just one little droplet of water floating in space-time and so our
extended body is all of life and I was thinking the other day since humans get things conceptually
backwards all the time, what if we got the idea of outside our body backwards, what if
everything outside our body is actually inside our body and everything inside our body is
actually outside our body.
There are certainly ways in which this is so, even though it may not seem to be the explicit
truth and it's very useful to entertain such ideas because by doing so we can learn things
that would be otherwise impossible for us to conceive of or entertain in thought and
awareness.
So here I am on Haight and Webster.
I'm about to get some food so I may wrap up pretty soon here.
I'm going to go to the place I showed last time, Metro Cheese Stake Shop, where last
time I was here making a video I met the owner and we talked about the history of both Metro
and Zipzap, where I had my first haircut in San Francisco and where I got invited to
a performance party, was able to read some of my poems and was extremely well received
and made a large number of friends that night.
Here's some pretty amazing art.
I like the Egyptian-esque mural down beneath it too.
A lot of the old Victorian houses here are quite beautiful and there's all these little
shops.
I mean this display has been here for more than 20 years.
Someone lives here, right?
So this is the Haight, H-A-I-G-H-T, and people make signs say lower, H-A-T-E, this is the
lower Haight.
There's a lot more to discuss but I'm going to close with a few comments about the nature
of identity.
There's a public aspect and a private aspect and these two are, they're bound together
in ways that resemble the Tao symbol.
By the way, here's some more display action.
May all places be held sacred, may all beings be cherished, may all injustices of oppression
and devaluation be fully righted, remedied and healed, may all who are captured by hatred
be free to love, to the love that is our birthright, may all who are bound by fear discover the
safety of understanding, may all who are weighed down by grief be given over to the joy of
being, may all who are lost in delusion find a home on the path of wisdom, may all wounds
to forests, rivers, deserts, oceans, all wounds to Mother Earth be lovingly restored to bountiful
health.
May all beings everywhere delight in whale song, bird song and blue sky, may all beings
abide in peace and well-being, awaken and be free.
It's a beautiful dream in this world, incredibly unlikely, nonetheless crucial to preserve the
vision of.
So there's a public and a private aspect to our being and our identity and as long as
we continue to believe that we are and should be treated as individuals and we live in societies
that are barely social and mostly prison-like, founded on the virtues of commodity, finance
and economy rather than the virtues of loving kindness, humanity, wonder and learning, then
we're going to continue to have these bizarre resurgence of lethally confused agendas that
pretend to a virtue they can never encompass or provide.
And this is part of the problem we face with democracy.
It's part of the problem we face with political correctness.
What we're actually seeing is a weird kind of masquerade where something resembling fascism
finds some way to mimic virtue and thus be transmitted, propagated, advanced, developed,
fertilized.
And I think it's important that we recognize both the virtues that underlie the ideals and
also the malignance that underlies many of the implementations.
So for now, I'm going to sign off and go get a cheese steak over here.
Here I am at pretty sure it's Hayton Fillmore.
There's Zipzap and Metro, a little grocery store where my friend Dan used to shop all
the time.
This is where I am.
Much love to you all.
All blessings.
Be safe.
Be well.
May the light of being and intelligence surround and lift you from whatever troubles you may
suffer.
Bye bye.
Bye.
Bye.
