Right near where I was presenting them with food, there was a hawk hidden in a tree
and it just now left that tree. And if I were not paying very close attention,
I would have missed it. And even though I'm speaking, I'm still paying attention too.
It's, thankfully it's not, but I have to admit once, once I start making face noises,
I tend to become extremely interested in continuing to make face noises and such.
And all of the things I'm thinking and the path of my thought and the threads and the memory so that I can
synthesize and complete thoughts and so on.
Nonetheless, I've learned to share that awareness with my embodied awareness. And I also want to mention
that even though I saw the hawk and connected it with the female's behavior,
I don't entirely believe my theory. And you can see how it's very tempting.
This is another problem. Certain forms of intellectual activity, thought, evaluation, comparison,
valuation, are tempting. And they're tempting to an aspect of what we often refer to as ego.
And personally, I've gotten in great trouble because of this.
Because I found it extremely tempting to be able to formulate, articulate,
and communicate about experiences that aren't ordinary.
And of course, someone could say, well, fundamentally all experiences are ordinary.
But that's a different meaning or sense of that word. And when I say not ordinary,
I mean something like
rare, subtle, easily overlooked,
not inherently conceptual, perhaps not inherently logical or rational.
Possibly, metaphysical, not in the sense of having nothing to do with physical embodiment,
but in the sense of
faculties and presence in forms of awareness
that are not merely local to my body, or maybe even my lifetime.
And in case you think there aren't such things, language is just such a thing.
You didn't make language. You inherited it. It's a tradition.
And we undergo a complex ladder, spiral stairwell,
of uniquely re-embodying the traditions that we're imprinted with.
But I want to return for a moment to what I mean by non-ordinary.
It's my experience that there are aspects of our humanity, our nature as beings and organisms and
animals, that have so little to do with how we ordinarily think, and the ways, the frameworks we
use to think, that whether or not they're innately magical, they may as well be.
But you can see the same problem in modern human culture.
Whether or not there are actual demons that have infected the collective
body of our species, there might as well be, because our collectives act in ways
that are similar to what we might expect had they become possessed by demons.
All day, every day.
And in fact, we instance demonic-like things. By the way, I'm using the old
weird semi-Christian version of demon here, and there are other versions that are interesting,
the Daimon of the Greeks and so on. But here I'm speaking of the toy,
an endlessly hungry being that dominates tortures and kills.
And is itself perhaps not even real in the sense of being
embodied, but becomes instead a sort of a network problem.
Its embodiment could be local to a single individual who's gone mad with
the desire to kill and dominate and torture and
win, to be right, to be correct.
So these forces, these properties, trends and expressions
in our human collectives, they could be thought of as
the result of the imposition of metaphysical evil.
But there's a simpler explanation, and I'm not necessarily saying I prefer it,
or there's a simpler model, which is just that when deep intelligence and the wisdom
that arises in authentic mutual concern, learning, play, reverence, wonder, awe,
and you hear me, if you've listened to me before, you've heard that list before.
Joy, discovery, co-being.
When that gets counter-fitted or overwhelmed by noise and superficial sophistication,
something very similar to actual evil results, and our intelligence dies off
into the structured superficial wrappings and
imperatives that dominate the living world at present.
It's only been a very short time that that's been true,
though humans have had a problem with large collectives for a long, long time.
And I remember in my 20s, because I've been concerned about these things throughout my
entire life, there were all kinds of ugly problems.
I was fascinated by the opportunity of going to school. I thought,
this is going to be the most amazing adventure. I can't wait.
And I remained fascinated for a long time in my youth, but almost immediately it was clear to me
that the purpose of the school wasn't precisely the same as what was presented.
And the unique novelty and character of each child
was getting amputated and circumcised to make them fit into a structured
superficial narrative that quite frankly was mostly bullshit, and most of that bullshit was toxic.
And it isn't because math and language are inherently bad.
It's because the imperatives that underlie our communal behaviour around them
have been captured by something toxic.
And I found it tragic to watch the little children trying to contend with forces
they were ill-equipped to understand or resist.
In my youth, I was lucky. I was very resilient. And I found ways
to grow my intelligence even in contexts
that profoundly opposed that possibility. I like to think I still do.
But when I'm really being intelligent, thinking doesn't have a lot to do with what's going on.
And again, I return to the problem of ego and how pleasing it is for me
to feel that I've noticed something that others don't see.
And you'll see this getting strangely played out in all kinds of bizarre,
modern contexts where someone stands up and says, I can see what others don't.
It's not very interesting, actually. Rather, the fact that it's superficially charismatic
is opposed by the common result, which is actually a form of sophisticated,
various myriads of forms of sophisticated stupidity, which again, I myself am vulnerable to.
And I got in a lot of trouble with this problem
because I'm something of a performer. I like to perform.
And I like to be seen as intelligent, articulate, skillful, hopefully mindful too,
but that's not as charismatic. And that charisma, that seeming to shine out from among the crowd,
and the desire for that experience and that feeling, and the benefits that may accrue
to one thus disposed, is gravidic.
So when I saw the hawk,
I remembered the behavior of the female and the specific calls she made as she departed the area.
Because I was new to the area and she'd been there all day,
she was intimate with what was going on right at that moment.
And when I saw her looking at me strangely, I became concerned that perhaps there was something
wrong with me. Perhaps there was something not good about me today. And admittedly,
today's been a bit of an anxious day for me.
It's been a little rocky, maybe more than a little.
But when I saw the hawk, I didn't immediately make the connection between her sounds,
which were
the kinds of sounds she made the character of her calls
is familiar to me. I've heard it before. I've heard it when corvids, particularly in this case,
blue jays, are harassing a nearby raptor.
That's the kind of call she made.
When I first saw the hawk, I was so excited to have discovered why she was troubled.
And my ego sort of became interested. Oh, you're very perceptive, Darren. You're very smart.
Now this important riddle has been answered.
And then I remembered all the times I got in trouble that way.
And so retreated a bit from my certainty back into mindful awareness.
Rarely, if ever, is this associated with the idea of intelligence.
The superficial kind, kinds of intelligence, the forms of intelligence that
are on the surface of consciousness in thought and language, concept and model,
can be extremely deceptive because it's very exciting to think that one of us,
or some group of us over time, have solved a great mystery.
In point of fact, none of the mysteries are solved
because they all have mysterious antecedents and components, layers and constellations
that get ignored when we produce the synthesis. E equals MC squared.
Why is there E? Why is there M?
What does equal mean, really? Why do we have this symbol?
Why is it that matter, the mass of something, multiplied by what we understand as the speed of light,
gives us a quantity, numbers,
with which we can determine how much energy is locally available there.
The strange thing about the superficial intelligence
is that it makes tokens and uses tokens to represent things in models and then
analyzes them. And this isn't inherently a bad thing, but if the results are captured by possessed
cohorts, collectives, and transformed into machines and toxicity and death,
then I'd argue that's not really intelligence.
I read some quote earlier today.
Don't remember the exact wording, but something like intelligence without wisdom leads to destruction.
And maybe by wisdom we mean something like, or we might mean, the possibilities of our intelligence
when they're encompassed by something older, deeper, more trustworthy, more authentic,
more present in the moment, more present in relationships, aware of relationships.
And the capacity to feel and experience deep within ourselves.
The ecstatic wonder of being alive at all.
This garden, I think, is about 70 years old.
But the noise floor and the forms of noise, including EM radiation,
radio, wireless signals, cell phone signals, so on, has exploded.
Not merely over that 70 years, but particularly over the last 20 if we're talking about
the non-sonics noise, the inaudible noise, the electromagnetic noise.
And historically humans have been catastrophically ignorant
about enacting technologies whose repercussions they're wildly incapable
of understanding or even entertaining the complexities of.
Our cells rely on complex electromagnetic relationships
at the membrane and in other parts of the cell
for all kinds of purposes.
But those purposes are communicatory in the sense that transformations in the cell
are expressed into the cellular environment where other cells become aware of them
and also transform. Our neurons are a bit like this, right? They're a network event,
even though, yes, we can pick a single neuron and maybe learn some things about
what it's doing with signaling and reception and transformation and chemistry, molecules, and so on.
As a species, we have the capacity for unimaginable sophistication of sensing and
intelligence, but most of what we get is the toxic wrapper and that's something I would love to see
amended. I'd love to see our children and our elders and every person all throughout their life
constantly experiencing new forms of awareness and sensing, possibility, opportunity, and role
in social contexts that weren't primarily toxic.
So it's ironic that the species that thinks of itself as the smart one
is pretty much killing everything, including its own intelligence all day every day
in five new ways per second, and this has been going on for a long time now, especially if we imagine
time as embodied in the organisms thus affected rather than just linear time one year equals one year.
Because in embodied time, a year is a many layered infinity of temporalities and relationships.
And this is obvious to anyone who pauses to reflect upon it with any degree of awareness.
I think that tragedy is linked to accidents in our cognitive evolution and stories.
These, we have only very partial records of.
The nonverbal intelligences, the cellular intelligences, the intelligences of our organs,
the intelligences that only arise in deep, authentic, authentic relational contexts
and roles and behaviors and situations.
These are the origins of the other stuff.
And they're vastly more trustworthy.
Because although they can be enticed to defect from our nature and interiority,
they remain true to it, even if they enact superficial defections as part of our everyday
activity and social situations.
But it's very strange that the animal that thinks it's the smart one around here
is actually the profoundly broken one.
And the endless library of the opportunities and possibilities for our people
is still conserved in what remains of the living places, the animals, the sky,
the stars, the sun, the moon, the plants, the waters, the deserts, the frozen places.
These are where our minds were born.
Perhaps these are what our minds are actually for.
In the sense of comprising
an integrative layer
where the capacity for formal representational cognition
doesn't merely collapse into its darkest, most confused, and most toxic results.
I don't know the answers to all the mysteries, though I have some interesting clues.
And over time, as I continue to explore my perspective changes,
I'm not just religious. I don't believe much of what I'm capable of thinking,
and I believe even less of what I'm capable of saying.
Or rather,
there's some belief there, but it's shallow.
And I like that it's shallow because
I need for it to be interrupted by insight.
And it's interesting that that word isn't outside, it's insight, seeing within.
And seeing in the sense of deep, emotionally rich understanding
arising from long consideration, mindful embodiment, and deep mutual concern for all beings.
This looks more to me like intelligence than all the computers humans will ever produce.
In the past 200 years, I don't know how many machines we've made,
but an estimate at the current automobile population is 1.4 billion.
Endlessly hungry machines
that kill by going.
They're not intelligent. They kill everything in their path with the rare, sometimes beautiful exception.
