Hello, everybody. Welcome to another walk in the wilds to exercise my body and perhaps
our intelligence. This is an unplanned talk, so I'm not sure what topics I'll reflect on,
but since I introduced the idea of intelligence, I might start by talking a little bit about that.
I've always had an unusual relationship with language and it's possible that at least one of my
parents was concerned about this when I was little because I was rather precocious and fairly
articulate for my age. When I entered kindergarten, I probably knew 20 long Latin words for the
scientific names of dinosaurs. I don't remember them all anymore. In fact, I remember very few of
them, but I was an early reader and that led to me reading a lot of all kinds of different material.
But the thing I think I was primarily interested in when I was little, which might be a little
surprising to people who know me well now, I was very interested in machines, cars and
automobiles, televisions and radios, telephones, computers eventually, first calculators. Those
seemed impossibly fascinating. And aircraft and war machines, spacecraft.
Of course, I was very young when the moonshots were taking place and those had an incredible
effect on me and my imagination. By far, most of what I read when I was youngish,
up until probably my 30s, I avidly read all the science fiction I could get my hands on.
And I was particularly curious about female authors, some of whom took on pen names.
And occasionally, within that library, there was quite a bit of fantasy too.
The Lord of the Rings books radically altered my universe. But every story I read,
any of them were profoundly astonishing. And it seemed that much later, when I could reflect back,
that science fiction was a place where prophets could hide in the modern context.
I read thousands of science fiction stories, probably more than 3,000 books in that topic.
So, I was really interested in language. And there's all kinds of strange problems
with our relationships with language. And languages in our species might be evidence of
something stranger than we've been bold enough to imagine. Although,
there are branches of culture where wild flagrant imaginings take place.
That perhaps don't have much to do with what's really going on and are
at least modestly delusional. Though, there's an intelligence, usually,
a form of intelligence within delusion for those of us capable of decrypting it.
And so, when I use the word intelligence, the common definition is something like the ability to
foresee and use structured methods to solve problems. That presumes that there are problems.
I don't have too much trouble with that idea. But usually, when we hear the word intelligence,
immediately, we first think of humans. And then we think of cognition, thinking. We think about
thinking when we hear the word intelligence. Most of us, not all of us. And the incompleteness of
language is one of the things we struggle with. As a writer, it can be very difficult to choose a
word because I'm aware of the likelihood that it may be misconstrued unless I choose very carefully
or context it carefully or admit openly that I don't mean it in an absolute way or an explicit way.
And I think the lazy part of what we're trained to do with language, which is extremely unfortunate
because it wrecks our minds, is to think that words have meanings. We know what the meanings are already.
And the scope is universal and the meanings are explicit. This is somewhat like how a machine
might be able to process language without having the slightest capacity to understand
anything at all. Machines don't have understanding. Understanding is a quality of organisms.
And its emulation in machines is fascinating and dangerous. But what's really peculiar is the idea
that humans, apparently modern humans, think that machines can be intelligent. Now, we can certainly
be intelligent so that machines qualify or we can modulate the definition. And that's a very dangerous thing
because the idea of intelligence is a holophore, a fundamental idea upon which many other ideas
absolutely depend and from which they draw their meanings and connotations and usages.
So if we change that word much, we really change the meaning of everything.
And to exchange embodied awareness and the structured processes on the surface of cognition,
for their deeper origins and imperatives could be catastrophic for human intelligence.
Now, I too am subject to the training most of us get, the scripting and imprinting we
experience in childhood and beyond. We experience it all throughout our lives.
That when I first hear the word intelligence, I might be inclined to think about the verbal
conceptual modeling, problem framing, mathematics, physics, geometry,
the sciences and so on. And that's one of the meaningful senses of the word.
But in the same way, my first name doesn't tell you much about me. The word intelligence can easily
mislead us, or rather we can mislead ourselves with it, because words can be a lot like mirrors.
And over time, rather than exploring them, we will tend to collapse into habits,
that essentially cause the mirror to produce the image we're expecting,
the image we're habituated to familiarity with.
I hear a woodpecker, and I'm fairly sure, or at least I suspect,
that what it's doing on the tree, making the sound, is not eating.
It's a sonic display phenomenon. It communicates all kinds of things that most humans aren't
experienced at sensing, myself included. Yet I'm aware of the undiscovered country
behind the sound I'm hearing. And I know that sound is probably older than my species, is in flat time.
And given the time of year, it probably has something to do with both repelling competing
suitors and declaring the attention of what I will here presume is a female.
I heard the same sound yesterday, in the same place.
The sound may have been transcoded by the microphone and the smartphone.
It's a very rapid series of tapping sounds,
percussion, and each presentation,
each inaction of this ancient way of being in the world,
has many features that are inclined to escape our common awareness,
partly because they're from outside the field of ideas and phenomena we regularly attend.
The percussions are very rapid, almost like a vibration, and each inaction
has a different number of strikes.
And even in a single pattern, there is variation in the strength of the strikes.
The animal is choosing directionality, volume, and in a way,
is presenting something of its soul and character to the world.
We live on a planet that must be extremely rare in time space,
even if there are many worlds with life.
Ours is paradisical in the sense that, well, in many senses,
but in the sense that it's swarming with uniquely embodied intelligences,
like the birds that I meet here in the back of the garden.
Now, usually when I bring treats for the birds, they're very excited.
And they readily accept them.
And the male of the pair that I'm with
took the food I gave it.
But the female looked at me very carefully,
and even though there was food in easy reach and the male was busy elsewhere,
she didn't pick up the food and instead left the area.
She is aware of something I can't sense.
But if I pay close attention to her,
it may become possible for me to sense parts of what she is aware of.
The male and the female hitchhike on each other's unique intelligences,
and that produces a superposition that neither of them could experience or embody alone.
Similarly, when my intelligence is included with theirs, I gain new senses.
I have the opportunity
to discover things about myself, life,
these particular animals, the situation right here, right now,
that would be otherwise either extremely difficult for me to notice or impossible.
It's common for humans to believe that we are the only intelligent species here,
and I regularly see rather stupidifying headlines,
in which it is claimed that researchers have discovered
that some specific animal has the kind of particular problem-solving intelligence
that we associate with humans and usually think of when we think of the word intelligent.
There are as many kinds of intelligence as there are organisms, more.
Because it's not merely organisms that embody intelligence.
Yet, as organisms, we're certainly particularly sensitive and inclined
to at least have the opportunity to participate with other living intelligences.
And one of the terrible ironies here
involves the tragic fact that our relationship with language and knowledge
appears to have been largely captured by forces we're only beginning to understand how to speak.
Clearly about.
And there may or may not be aspects to these forces that we would think of as metaphysical.
And of course, whether we think of them as metaphysical or not depends a lot on
the frameworks we're using and our habits and history of thought and so on.
Also, our concerns, our purposes. For whenever we explore or analyze something,
our purpose is in doing so pre-frame the specific kinds of outcomes that we may have access to.
In the garden and some other places, there used to be more outside the garden,
but the city is a very difficult place for animals to live.
But in the garden, there are cohorts of birds.
And they form complex social sensing bodies together.
And you can see, for example, in a group of sparrows, the incredible sophistication
that they're capable of embodying and demonstrating.
Particularly, if there is an opportunity or a threat,
because either one of those conditions, if the birds sense them,
will transform the character of the cohort.
And the character is very complex because each bird has a unique way of being a bird.
A sparrow, a hawk, an owl, a raven, a ran, a robin, a walking bird, a black bird,
a hummingbird, a bat.
And when you put that uniqueness together in a team that's at once
somewhat competitive, certainly has competitive members,
doesn't mean they're only competitive or they're always competitive.
And then there are sensitive members and they're each uniquely sensitive.
Each bird is a different age, has a different history, is in the situation in a unique way.
And that gives them the opportunity to form something we might analogize in technology
as an antenna or an array of antennas that inform each other's capacities for sensing,
awareness, signaling, responding to opportunity or threat.
And so if you watch the birds, you'll see that there are birds that become disturbed long before
others do. And there are birds that don't become disturbed long after most of them have.
It's almost as if the birds know what I'm talking about right now.
Long ago, before the advent of technology, as we understand it today,
humans, living places and organisms formed connected sensoriums.
Humans weren't merely the enemies of animals.
And animals weren't merely a resource, nor were plants.
There was a deep innate awareness
of communality, communion,
that our lives all depend upon each other and that our senses and minds depend upon each other.
And we can see how easily this goes wrong in modern technological situations.
But long ago,
our ancestors had whole arrays of senses that we have little or no experience of,
though many of us were born with those potentials, we inherited them.
And probably not merely genetically, even if there's fairly strong evidence for the contribution
of genes to character and health and intellect and mental behavior and metabolic behavior and so
on. It's fascinating that as our species has become more technically intelligent, that is to say
more capable of framing problems in models, concepts and language,
in such a way that it inclines us to first recognize that there is a problem
and then to try to resolve it. As this process has continued,
our senses went dark. And perhaps things other than merely our senses because
our senses,
well, again, we have the problem of words. What do we mean by these words? What do I mean?
What is usually meant?
But without coherent integration, meaningful, purposeful, synthesis,
our senses, while still relatively concretely reliable, I can tell whether I'm cold or hot,
hungry or tired, sick or well, whether my balance is working or not.
But when our senses lose their foundations in relation, authentic relation,
organismal relation,
while they remain superficially trustworthy,
on deeper levels, things go sideways, so to speak.
It's ironic that as we've, you know, as a species, that's what I mean by we here,
as our species has developed methods and machines of incredible sophistication,
something's been sacrificed, something so essential
that it deprives us of most of what's actually accessible to us
as organisms and beings and animals and humans.
And that essential shining water sparkling with the original light of being and incarnation
turns to dark shadows of war, omnicidal activity with each other and the environment.
We haven't actually become more intelligent as a species,
though one could meaningfully argue that the opportunities that are at least available,
whether or not they get enacted and embodied in the modern circumstance, educationally and so on,
are vastly different from what was available, say, 500 years ago,
or 200 years ago, or even 100 years ago. In some ways, the world has changed very dramatically
over even the past 20 years.
And cognitively, we're living in a completely different universe,
a layered universe of representations and abstractions, models and language, concepts,
habits, behaviors, imperatives, many of which are not only inhuman,
they're profoundly toxic.
There's an old rosemary plant here
that I enjoy relating with.
But in order to be able to relate with it meaningfully, I have to let go
of all of the concepts and habits and ideas and language and models that are common to my people
and allow that storm in the surface of my mind to settle down into a kind of living silence.
And I've discovered that all of the different organisms have
unexpected abilities to communicate
in a way that utterly defies common human expectation, theory, ideas, practice.
They can make and communicate with forms of silence
that are emotionally musical.
And we can make these forms of silence too. We can learn to. In fact, before we acquired language,
this was our way. Though occasionally we would cry out or laugh or squeal or chirp.
And when I think about intelligence in a deep way so that I'm not merely referring
to, ah, there's the reason why the female, yep, there's why she wouldn't take the food.
