And it's as if our species has been parasitized by something that resembles an aspect of intelligence,
unless that aspect dominates. And when that happens, apocalypse ensues inside us,
in our minds, in our cultures, in our ecologies,
that can't be intelligent.
And recently I heard some strange media noises about an Israeli professor who claimed that
a recent visitor to our solar system might be an alien artifact and further
that aliens don't make contact with our species because we're not intelligent.
I think he said we're too stupid.
And I can understand some of that, though I think he's presenting a very personal opinion.
And though I won't belabor this point, whatever we refer to as minds,
these are not possessions. They're something we participate in. They're the result
of participating in all kinds of things and being exposed to all kinds of
forces and catalysts and processes that we're incapable of thinking about formally.
Though we might get a handle on some of them, so to speak.
But what I wanted to say was that like being human, intelligence is extremely sensitive to context.
Change the context, you get a different mind. When someone I love shows up and I'm able to have
a conversation with them or go for a walk, I am transformed. Whatever was going on in my little
isolated brain bag prior to that, some of it's still going on.
Some of it's so momentous that it's hard to dial it down unless we practice.
And it can be very useful to practice that if we would like to discover what actual
intelligence looks like and we certainly have the capacity to participate in it.
But I think our minds, particularly the superficial minds, but maybe even deeply,
they're the results of layers of relation and maybe even something like, something before societies.
And what I mean by that is endless families of beings over time.
Our minds are much stranger than we imagine and I don't think they're like the way we tend to model
them. We're participating in something and if that something is primarily in the human
society, many branches of that tree have been captured and counterfeited and so we will reproduce
them as mind-like states and activities unless we're very sensitive and aware,
unless the ancient inner path-finding senses awaken. And when that happens, invariably we will
discover that our minds are not possessions at all. They're gifts.
Our species has the opportunity to embody astonishing roles in nature, in the universe,
in time-space. Unless, of course, they're captured and counterfeited by the strange processes
that swarm throughout human technological societies, what we call modern societies,
in which case most of us will live blinded inside. And though we were born with 70 different wings
for a hundred kinds of flying together with nature, with origin,
many of us will live and die having only tasted it briefly in childhood.
It's not the only thing that happens. When I think in generalities and abstractions,
my purposes in so doing will determine what I notice.
There's every kind of exception. There are humans whose hearts are so beautiful,
but to be exposed to them for even a few moments will change our life forever.
Some of those humans are infants, some of them are children, some of them are teens,
young adults, adults, middle-aged people, older people, dying people, sick people.
So you can see that our ideas of value are profoundly confused in general, and yet
we may become exceptional in ways whose brightness
cause the relatively dim brightness of egoic charisma or I'm the one who knows what's true
to fade away and be obliterated.
An ecstatic inner seeing as the tree of wings filled with eyes inside us comes back to life.
If only for a moment,
that moment can change everything for our life path.
And when I think of the idea of making a contribution
to the world of my people, all the people, all the beings,
this is the kind of contribution
I deeply hope for and I am in my clumsy and sometimes misguided way pursuing.
Thank you for walking with me today. I look forward to new explorations, healing,
discovery, wonder, play and joy together very soon.
Bye-bye for now.
