It's an illusion cast by a one, the kind of a one that's forgotten the zeros.
So whatever it means to be any gender is dynamic.
It's alive.
It's creative.
It's a mixture.
But it must give precedence to origin, right?
It must understand, very obviously, the one emerges from the zero.
But to be a man means you're emerging from that origin, that feminine origin, every moment.
Emerging, emerging.
In relation and memory and adoration with it constantly as yourself.
So how could it be wrong to be feminine as a man?
Impossible, absolutely impossible.
It's a fiction of language.
It's a shadow of language casts and says, identity shall look like this.
Because the language says so, really.
Nowhere anywhere can you write down what gender is supposed to be.
You can just, the only way to tell what gender is is to look at nature.
You can forget all of human language, all the human opinions, all the human ideas and
just look at what actually is, there it is, nature.
And what you're going to see is the most shockingly dynamic, constantly flowing, changing expressions
of a meta-gendering, manifold, collapsing and dancing with itself in all the different
possible ways, inventing new ways.
So there's certainly no norm of gender.
And very surprisingly, all the people who are apparently very concerned about these
norms don't seem to realize something fundamental, that the nature of reality is transgendered.
The nature of your mind is transgendered.
The nature of God is beyond gender.
It's trans-engendered.
It's trans-engendering.
Trans-engenderness.
There's no other way for that to be.
What's happened in human culture and history, unfortunately, is that rather with contact
with knowing anything about what these terms refer to, we've become very confused from
books and language and cultures.
And so we have our books and language and cultures, and we think either God is like
these books and language and cultures and arguments, or God isn't existing or something.
I don't know.
It's very bizarre.
What I want to get at is that's the same problem.
We fell down the cone into the derivatives.
So far into them, that language seemed to declare to us what things must be and what
it means to be normal, even though nothing anywhere in any part of reality ever was normal
for a minute, except in language.
So to know anything about gender at all means to become the exploration of its dynamism.
Not to become the declaration of norms from language or dead authorities or books.
And whatever those authorities or books might be, they have nothing to do with God.
Because there's no way you can get from the order of origins down into books and have
equivalency.
Those derivatives require humans to interpret them, at the very least.
And those humans can interpret them in wildly myriad ways.
And there's no possible way that any of those things can be declaratively true about the
nature of God, reality, what gender is supposed to be, shouldn't be, or any of that stuff.
Those are fictions that have come to stand in the place of intelligence, relation, understanding,
participation in origin with our origins as the living expressions and voices of origin.
It's absolutely crucial that we understand, especially men, it's far easier for women
to understand, for they start out in a relatively good position with origin.
Their bodies are origin.
But unfortunately, men and the sort of masculine, the false masculine shadow that enculturates
men and that dominates our cultures has no relationship with that.
It's completely tyrannically isolated in fictions of language.
And so it wants to declare genders, including the gender of God.
The reason that we think the gender of God is male and speak of the gender of God as
male is not necessarily because we're chauvinist.
It's again because the zero is invisible and its intelligence is silent.
It doesn't speak.
It would never write a book, ever.
So the aspect of the divine that is expressed into derivations is the masculine.
And it's the only aspect you can see.
It's the expression body, so it looks always masculine.
But trust me, it's the hero of the zero.
And always has been.
This is the great secret, or a great secret.
To encode it in language in such a way that it will liberate those who are trapped by
its opposite, yet we may play at such tasks as hopefully I have here.
What should be clear is this.
Potential is transgendered.
All expressions derive from potential.
Demand is beyond gender.
All modes of gendering, dynamic forms of gendering have a peculiar quality that requires something
like our own minds to produce our experience of.
We should not bow to the declarations, demands, or tyrannical projections of our very crude
relationships with the languages we've thus far formed.
Instead, we should just recognize that the nature of our nature is beyond gender.
And whatever this word God may refer to, it is certainly not one gender alone.
Nor could it be.
In exploring these matters, we can find new ways to think and speak, see, play and discover
both something more like our actual intelligence and something much more like our hearts, the
nature of our humanity.
And our relationship with language and the both exciting and dangerous derivatives of
representational thought and the cultures that it has thus far rather crudely generated,
perhaps we may even advance them together.
