was trying to illustrate to me in our conversation,
the day before yesterday, I think, no? Friday, I think.
And he told me a complex story, one that I've heard before, just a second.
But I'm, I am attentive enough to understand that when I have the honor to hear
a story, what the, what the Blackfoot people call stories, they're not merely stories.
To even hear one, something is exchanged, something comes into you.
They are not magical spells, though they bear some resemblance. So that when you hear this story,
you are receiving an incredible, non-ordinary asset. And to receive that asset with respect
and attention, this grants benefits. This,
this endows one with nourishing awareness. Not all of it, most of it, not intellectual.
The story carries a payload of non-ordinary awareness, understanding, relationships,
connections. And so unlike a regular story that I might hear in English,
when I, when I am so lucky as to hear a Blackfoot story, or the story from another Indigenous
person or culture, like the Navajo beauty way stories, I pay very close attention because
I learned a long time ago. And I'm still quite stupid. I'm not, I'm not saying I know. Believe
me, I don't know. I'm an unknownist. Yet I have noticed, or I can say I have noticed,
that these stories, they carry a payload. And if properly received, the payload gives you seeds,
and the seeds grow in you over time, and they grow in your dreaming. Yeah? Not just in your
waking life. And it's very important that we understand the nature of stories like this and
the power that they carry because the stories we have are missing the payload. Lots of them.
There's all kinds of complex reasons for that. I'm not here to explain that. I just want to say that
that the fact that I had heard this story before, not only did it not affect,
not only did the fact that I heard the story before not reduce my enthusiasm,
it had the opposite effect. It increased it. Now, imagine if we had experiences like that
commonly, where, you know, our relationships with beings in places that were familiar became
more enriching each time we encountered them. When our relationships with language and knowledge,
awareness, understanding, and perspective became more enriching each time we encountered them,
so that we would not become bored by the fact that we're no longer receiving the
invisible payload that should be carried by communication and storying whose purposes
are true in the sense of being true to the origins and history and future of life on
earth and humanity and our hearts, our spirits. The anciently evolved relationships with nature
that have been so recently and devastatingly discarded.
So it's this middle ground where the humans have the problem, right?
Far away, a human being, that's okay. We see a human being. We know they are human already,
right? Up close, it's Darren. We're pretty good at that, right? I know whether Joe's okay or not,
but in the middle ground where I don't see a human being, I see a representation. Oh,
that's a man of X-Race, or that's a person of X-Gender, yeah? In that place, there's trouble,
and there's particularly trouble with the organs of enforcement, and this is my second part of my
topic today, that our supercultures have invented as expressions of their character and purpose.
We need to understand that. For a long time, I've said the prisons are an abomination we
cannot afford. They have to be eradicated entirely, and people say, well, what do you expect us to do
instead? And what those people don't realize is that to answer that question, we would first
have to establish society's intelligence enough that prisons weren't their natural result,
you see? And unfortunately, we haven't done that. The reason that we have
a burgeoning, explosively unjustified military spending, prison spending,
a system of wealth cashing that is the, it's trickle up, except a lot of the time it's gush up,
right? So if you can wipe out a whole living place, abstract value will gush toward the investors
who paid the relatively minimal prices to have that done. And since those investors cannot be
targeted, they cannot be indicted, though corporations can. The only thing that happens
to corporations is they pay fines. So all they have to do is make more money than the,
that's funny when I said that, make more money than the fines they have to pay,
and they're making a profit. You can't be in prison, a corporation, they can't be
punished in the way a human can. And this is part of why we call things like limited liability,
right? Because their liability is limited. So
the humans have been playing a game of fictions and the pirates in the culture who are mostly,
you know, the wealthy and the entitled. And by the way, entitled, it goes back to like having land
in colonial, like England or something, right? People who had titles
usually were granted land so they could own the living world, parts of the living world,
in perpetuity. Pretty astonishing idea, absolutely insane. In any case, since our prison,
since our prison-like cultures produce the necessity of prisons,
when people ask me like, what should we do instead? I have to begin by suggesting that we
establish something that doesn't resemble and produce prisons as a natural result of its
structured fictions. So that we would produce, and by the way, as I've said many times before,
this can be done on a very small scale. It happens all the time between two or three or
five people. We establish an amazingly playful, mutually supportive unity. We have an adventure,
and then we go back to prison in the nine to five, right? And people can't wait to do this.
They're dying to do this. If you just gave them a way to have meaningful roles and
still, while having meaningful roles, supply the necessities of their lives,
like shelter and food and clothing and healthcare and stuff like this,
they wouldn't do anything else. And the systems that we serve today are so
vicious, so malignant, that it really shouldn't be hard to outcompete them with another contender.
The problem is they have vast momentum, so nobody has come up with a contender. We've been too busy
building corporations and startups and technology. We have not engineered, we haven't looked,
not only have we not engineered intelligent culture, we've done the opposite. Our culture has been
like nose diving down, you know, toward the most crude of possible derivatives,
while, you know, technologies and startups and corporations and such
are being rapidly, ever more rapidly developed and deployed. In case it's not blatantly obvious,
that's a recipe for absolute disaster. And the longer we ignore it, the more severe
and diverse the cascade of disasters that will emerge from that is. And everybody's, you know,
everybody knows like something's wrong. And because these people live in the layered
array of media fictions, they're busily exchanging little media objects, pretending that they know
what's wrong. That's part of what's wrong. That doesn't help us. Yelling at pirates doesn't affect
them. In fact, the more you yell at pirates, the happier they get. And the reason they get happier
is that when you yell at pirates, they profit. And the reason that they profit is you're yelling at
them with the tools that they themselves own. So every time you use those tools, they make money.
And they acquire intelligence about you, your social connections, your psychographic data,
who you're likely to like or not like, how they can enforce or reinforce
factionating behavior in little subgroups of populations.
And so the pirates just get happier the more you yell. I tried to communicate this to liberals
and Democrats who were yelling at Trump before he was elected. And they didn't realize they were
practically, they were helping to guarantee his election. But there were many features that resulted
in that previously unimaginable tragedy. And one of them was just the fact that the Republicans
practically obliterated the capacity for our schools to educate us
in their assaults on public infrastructure throughout the 70s, 80s, particularly the 80s
and 90s and early 2000s. And I've gone on about this in many other videos, so I'll
sidestep it here. But what I wanted to get at is that our police and our military,
they are the analogy. This is really important. I like biological analogies,
much more than mechanical ones. Most of the mechanical ones are false.
They're two steps away from what we should be looking at, which is organism, nature.
Our military and our police represent the analogy of our immune systems.
And I want to be really, I want to, I want to take some time to
both ambiguous, ambiguous and disambiguate this term immune system.
So people have said the gut was the second brain. My friend Kevin would say the immune system was
a second brain. The gut was the third. I would say the gut was the first brain. The immune system
was the second brain. And once you had those two, you got to have brains.
And why would my friend Kevin, who's a molecular biologist and a neuroscientist, why would he say
the immune system is the second brain? Well, the immune system has a very specific array of
behaviors. I don't want to call them jobs because they're not jobs. And I don't want to call
them responsibilities because they're not responsibilities. What they are are relational
inclinations. That's a good, that's a good phrase. I trust that. Our immune systems, first of all,
are so sophisticated that science will never catch up to them. In fact, I'm going to be so bold as
to say that what we call science will never suffice to encompass a quarter of what our immune systems
are and do. Okay, so here is a little grove of Dawn Redwoods. These amazing organisms are the ancient
ancestors of redwood trees and they are deciduous. They lose their greenery in the winter. And this
little grove was badly damaged by the fall of that tree. And I have not seen them in greenery
till now. You can see this tree was badly injured and this little tree took the brunt of the damage,
but yet it's still got a little sprout there of living greenery. And I love these trees very much.
Their name doesn't matter, but I love to say it. It's Metasequoia glipto cereboides.
It's just fun to say. It's also fun to just exercise my vocabulary. And I need to because I'm
getting older. It needs exercise to survive. But I'm glad to see the little one has a tiny
spot of greenery, just one. And I love these trees. And all of these trees come from a single tree
that I believe was discovered, if I remember correctly, in China in the late 1800s by biologists
who thought it was extinct. They found a single tree growing alongside a monastery. And all of the
trees of this type in Golden Gate Park and in the rest of the world come from that single mother
tree. And there are at least 30 of them here. I occasionally discover new ones, as I did last
week. Now back to the topic at hand, the immune system. Our immune systems are so unimaginably
sophisticated. Science will never get, it'll never encompass a quarter of their sophistication.
I'd be surprised if we get, even if you say like, well, give us a thousand years or 10,000 years,
it won't matter because nature is evolving and developing. And those are two different things,
by the way, evolving is not development necessarily. Nature is evolving and developing so
astonishingly quickly compared to our capacity to represent it in models and theories and research
that will never catch up. So we should respect that fact and realize it, right, that we're not
going to catch up. And we shouldn't take the knowledge that we have, however seemingly
effective or utilitarian, to be anywhere near complete. We should take it to be incredibly
partial if we're intelligent. And believe me that scientists are aware of this. If you ask them like,
how much of the immune system do we know? Like what do we know about, what's the percentage of
knowledge that we have acquired compared to the complexity of the immune system? A good scientist,
I'm guessing here, someone correct me if you think I'm wrong, they're going to say something like two
percent. They might even say less than one percent, right? So when you say something to a scientist like
strengthening the immune system, for most scientists that phrase is nonsensical.
For one thing, what do you mean? It's a meaningless phrase. The thing is so
diverse and complex and sophisticated, what would it mean to strengthen it? Not only that,
the phrase your immune system refers to such a vast array, such a diverse library
of biological inclinations, entities, relationships and activities,
that to put them all together into one thing is kind of confused to begin with.
Yet we can do it and we can even do it usefully. We can learn things.
So the immune system is unimaginably sophisticated, very, very complex. And now I'm looking where
I'm walking. If I'm walking off a trail, I'll be watching that from now on. No more stepping on
yellow jacket nests for me. So the reason my friend Kevin calls the immune system the second
brain is one of its primary relational inclinations is to determine the difference between what belongs
on and in me and what is a potentially dangerous intruder. And it does this so intelligently
that it doesn't just go around killing things or even imprisoning them, though both of those
metaphors are reasonable analogues of what the immune system can do. It also integrates.
Right. In fact, the animal cell is the likely result as proven by Carl Sagan's brilliant
wife, Lynn Margolis, much to the chagrin of academia. Our animal cells are the likely result of
mergers between kinds of cells that once, you know, mergers between cells that consumed other
biological organisms and digested them. And some of the undigested organisms eventually became
symbionts and complex animal cells were the result of that. This is the symbiogenesis theory of animal
cell development. Lynn Margolis was roundly criticized and injected from academia for
proposing it. She later proved it much to the chagrin of those people who laughed at her at first.
And we will learn more. That's the beginning. My point, though, is that the immune system's primary
job is to identify dangerously invasive organisms and to deal with them in a way that causes as
little damage as possible. Now, immune systems misbehave. And when they do that, we get auto
most of us were actually that's not really true. An unknown number of us are experiencing
autoimmune disease partly because the signals our bodies are receiving from nature are all
confused, right? You're breathing in chemistries from Dow Chemical and dryer sheets and insecticides.
And we've included antibiotics in the fundamental basis of the environment, which has changed the
genomes of trillions of microorganisms upon which our bodies depend since half the cells in our
bodies aren't human. We get them from the environment. We get them from food. We get them from soil.
We get them from our progenitors as children being touched and kissed and having our diapers
changed. We get them from animal contact. We get them from contact with plants and fungi and
living places. We inherit them. So the humans have been radically, ignorantly altering
the fundamental bases of life on earth for at least the past 100 years. Very short period of
time, unimaginably not. That's not even, that's not a trillionth of a second in geological time.
That's not an eye blink for earth. But in that eye blink, we poisoned the oceans, obliterated
the anciently conserved forests and most of their inhabitants. Who, by the way, would have taught us
things about molecular biology we won't learn for the next 10,000 years. Because those organisms
were so ancient. So if we were actually concerned about science or medicine, we would have known
you absolutely have to preserve the oceans and the rainforests. Because those things are living
pharmacopias with molecules so astonishingly advanced that we'll never be able to produce them
on our own. And that doesn't mean you have to burn them down to get them. You can just study an
organism and learn that it produces a certain kind of molecule or substance or has a biological
process that we can use to cure disease. Or perhaps, although this is a much more dangerous
goal in my view, extend life or reverse aging. I'm not a fan of the let's extend life and
reverse aging agendas because our species is too ignorant to merit such benefits right now.
And that's a more complex argument that we can have another time. My point is our immune systems,
the reason my friend Kevin called them the second brain is they determine the difference between
essentially, it's much more complex than this, but essentially they determine the difference
between self and other right between us and them. And in case it isn't obvious,
our military and police are the biological analog of that. Now, as our own actual immune systems
have become confused and attack our bodies, many of us suffer from at least minor autoimmune disease,
or we have immune deficiencies. So there's two kinds of problems with the two basic domains
of trouble with our immune system. One, it's not aggressive enough, it doesn't attack stuff,
and it doesn't control infection. These are people who are immunocompromised and that can happen in
a variety of ways, but one of the ways it happens is simply by exposure to toxic
byproducts of human industry and activity in the environment. And some people who've had
cancer, which is a problem that derives from particular properties of cells reproducing,
some of those people have had therapies that damage their immune systems
to help them to survive. So they exchange the fact of the immune damage for survival,
and then they live the rest of their lives immunocompromised. There are other people who are
