immunocompromised in general, people who suffered from diseases like HIV, which by the way,
in case you think this was invented, in case you're one of those people who thinks,
oh, the humans invented HIV. Well, it's not inconceivable they had some role in its propagation,
but long before humans were capable of, strange little thing, long before humans were capable of
doing anything with science. Our species, our genome, shows historically that we encountered HIV
long, long ago, possibly before we were human. That doesn't mean humans had nothing to do with
with the origin and spread of modern HIV, although that idea is generally considered
to be a conspiracy theory. So I'm going to get back to this fact that our own immune systems have
become wildly confused by the layered fictions of molecular and electrochemical noise produced by
industry and the behavior of our collectives were surrounded constantly in electromagnetic fields
and people say, well, electromagnetic fields come from the sun. Yeah, not mechanical ones,
not the ones that we were buried in constantly. And at the surface of a cell,
the electromagnetic valences are crucially important to the extremely delicate production and
processing and recognition of biomolecular relational signals and proteins and molecules and such. So
there's just all this noise, right? There's all this toxicity all around us in the environment.
And some scientists will argue, well, you know, the skins of certain plants produce the chemicals.
Chemicals aren't a problem. They're right. Chemicals aren't a problem. Artificially
produced chemicals that don't fit into the relationships and biologies. Those are a
fucking problem. Believe me, right? Because they're toxic to organismal relationships and
over time, just like these layered fictions that produce societies that are unsurvivably
vicious and stupid, we get layers and layers of chemical and electromagnetic and biological
noise, right? We've changed in our own bodies by taking antibiotics, which have some reasonably
significant application, like a reasonably significant scope of a scope of reasonable
application that's relatively narrow. By introducing those substances into our bodies, we've changed
the genomes of our microbiota in ways that animals have never experienced before,
and for purposes that make no sense, that have nothing to do with protecting us
from invasive bacteria that might cause catastrophic harm if they were allowed
to sustain their reproduction. That's a Puyah venus cagulilo from Chile.
The Puyahs produce astonishing flowers. My point is that
when we discovered antibiotics, we came to believe that half the cells in our body were
the enemy, and we started using products that wipe them out wholesale. This is like discovering
that you have a wasp nest in a forest and burning the whole forest to the ground with
like agent orange, right? We grossly overreacted and we were ignorant about, I poked myself on
that plant, we were ignorant about the actual nature of our own organismal complexity, so we
developed these chemicals that wiped out and transformed, they caused mutation in the microbiota
upon which our metabolisms intimately depend, and that's not undoable. You can't fix that.
Probiotics don't fix that. There's no way to fix that. Once you're exposed, your microbiota are
permanently transformed, and so our immune systems are confused because the contexts in which they
normally functioned have been completely overwritten with layered, confusing fictions, and so our immune
systems, they still work, you know, they work relatively well considering the amount of
astonishing confusion they have to function in. For most of us, they do, but some of us suffer
terrifying immune dysfunction, and I have some, and I know people who suffer incredible, profound
immune dysfunction that makes their lives miserable or barely survivable. I mean, some people's
immune systems attack their own bones or attack their own blood or attack, you know, their tendons.
There's all kinds of immune, just like a huge library of immune dysfunction
that people are subject to that is really difficult. Allergies, you know, are one of those things.
Allergies are generally your immune system responding to something that's relatively
ordinary as if it were conceivably a biological invader, and so your immune system gets all sort of,
has a little fit of temper and produces a bunch of armed, you know,
produces a little army, right, and goes after stuff that it actually, that has no relationship
to being a disease, stuff like pollen. This is the moon pool, my little sanctuary.
So our own physical immune systems are unimaginably confused, and that means, well,
they're often very confused. Let's put it that way. I'm just going to show you this
incredible reflection for a moment as we pause
before I begin to talk about how our military and police, our governments and religions,
our analogues of immune systems.
So
our society was founded on principles too antiquated to be repairable in our time,
and instead of advancing and progressing and developing that society, we kept doubling down
on these incredibly
mispurposed, ineffectual ideas and methods from before colonial England, from Christianity,
from religion. And by the way, governments, religions, military organizations and police,
all of these are analogous to immune systems in the sense that they are tasked with functions
of keeping order, ensuring structures are reliable, and telling the difference between us and them.
The religious declaration of kill the infidel is a result of
a situation where
a layer of stories was used historically to incite people to segregate themselves,
to see themselves as chosen and others as evil or damned or justifiably murderable
and our culture proceeded to adopt features from the religions, which may
once have been the precursors to governments. In other words, they told us they provided a
structured system to distinguish between us and them, and we were the chosen people and they were
the bad guys. By the way, us and them isn't sufficiently sophisticated to produce survivable
social relations anywhere. That kind of absolute disambiguation into a bipolar dichotomy gets us
dead because unlike the layered fictions that our societies propose and elaborate upon and obey,
life is a game of diverse relationships and making adjustments to ensure that diversity survives
because we all depend on it, because intrinsically we're made of it. When I see people,
I am what I would call an ethno-file. So first of all, unlike many intellectuals,
I'm not a misanthropist. I don't hate humans. I adore nature and what the human supercultures do
in nature is cruelly tragic, but I'm not a misanthrope. I'm anthropolic, which means I love humans,
but I'm not merely anthropolic. I'm ethno-philic, which means I love diversity. I like to see people
who are different from me and who, when I meet unique people from other cultures, I am thrilled
and excited because I feel that I will discover new features of myself that had been lost to me
over evolutionary times. So I will retrieve new inner aspects of my own humanity that had been
hidden from me in the diversity of others. And this is what makes me a diversophile and
anthropolic, an ethnophilic. Otherness doesn't terrify me. It makes me enthusiastic. It makes me
feel excited. One moment. So for me, it's not that I can, if I approach another human being
that approaches me with fear or aggression or something that looks predatory or feels threatening,
I can still respond with fear. That's within my purview. But generally speaking, I am friendly
towards people who might seem superficially different from me. And for me, I don't want it any other way.
I'm hungry for diversity. One of the things I love is that living in San Francisco, as I walk down the
street, I can hear languages from all around the world, and that means essentially from all throughout
time and place. Now, I don't understand all those languages. In fact, the only language I
technically understand is English. But I'm not a policeman. Though I can be triggered to be
police-like under certain circumstances. So for example, right now, I am required to raise this
mask if I come within 30 feet of someone. And if they don't do that, there's the potential for me to
feel a little bit like I should say, hey, 30 feet. I don't really want to do that, although I
understand the necessity of protecting each other during the pandemic. And the pandemic is no fiction.
I know nurses and doctors in hospitals. I know virologists who've examined the organisms directly.
I know microbiologists. It's not a fiction. It may not be the only thing going on, right? There
might be multiple. In science, there's a phenomenon called multiple determination,
which is when you have a number of causal possibilities, each one of which is sufficient
by itself to cause a phenomenon that you're looking at, right, that you're studying.
So what's going on now on earth is so complicated that there's likely to be some degree of multiple
determination occurring. But that said, the novel coronavirus is an actual infective agent
that in those who are vulnerable to it, and possibly in those who don't at first appear vulnerable,
has really severe sequelae and the potential to be deadly.
This is a mystery. We're still unpacking. It's going to take quite some time for us to unpack it.
Our immune systems have never encountered anything like this that I am aware of.
People say like, well, the flu is a coronavirus. Yeah, it's not a coronavirus like the novel
coronavirus. Even though that there are some influenza strains that are coronaviruses,
if I understand the research correctly. Now, my point about the police and our governments
and the military and our system of courts is that they are supposed to act a bit like an
immune system. And that means they're supposed to determine what things are dangerous and
disorderly and address those things. Unfortunately, since the metaphor our culture resembles
is sort of a combination of pirate armies and prisons, right? It's a pirate army prison,
industrial complex. Our military forces and our police naturally inherit and express those qualities.
And this is part of the problem that we're facing now. Our police, who should be the largely peaceful
agents that protect and serve everyone who is in the United States. Notice I didn't just say
citizens, right? Because when people visit our country, they also deserve humane, intelligent
protection. And if necessary, defense and not to be killed, not to be judged,
not to be executed, because they match some middle ground symbolic derivation,
shorthand bullshit that has become endemic to the culture of police around the United States.
And now that disease is spreading to other countries where it hasn't already spread.
So, both our military, our military is totally disoriented because our government is idiotic,
right? And by the way, that means we're, if you thought your government's capable of protecting
you from a foreign threat, you're out of your fucking mind. Your government can't protect you
from itself, right? It's like an immune system gone haywire. What we're experiencing in the United
States, one moment, there's some of that noise I was talking about earlier, by the way, although I'm
pretty sure my machine filters out a lot of it, huh? It's a couple of planes flying way too close
together. I think those are lotuses, but I'm not sure. Those are lily pads.
Our government is misfounded. It is not founded on principles that are humane or intelligent or
noble. Those resemblances have become mere pretense. And so, similarly, the agents of the
government, the court systems, the police, and the military can only be expressions of that
noise and fiction masquerading as nobility and humanity and intelligence.
The police are primarily there to protect the wealthy. And they are, they are manipulable.
The systems that we depend upon to produce something analogous to what an intelligent immune
system might do are obeying signals from what might as well be demons. And therefore, the intrinsic
cultures, the cultures intrinsic to the layer of the fictional society we belong to, the
fictional society we belong to that we call government, the layer that we call the court system,
and the layer that we call the police. Those things, they are not broken in the sense that they are
doing precisely what they've always done.
They are executing the
profiles and the templates. They are executing the
character of the dominant fictions and the dominant layers of fiction and the classes that inhabit
those layers. They are naturally expressing the character
of the fictions they are serving. And so until we establish layers of culture that are humane and
intelligent, we're going to keep facing the same kinds of problems. But it helps us to understand
this analogy between our immune systems being confused by all of the bizarre intrusive
noise and toxicity of modern industrial and pharmacological culture and something not entirely
dissimilar in our societies where the combined activity of our government, our military and our
police looks like autoimmune disorder. When it attacks, it attacks the wrong stuff for the wrong
reasons. And we pay the price. We all pay the price. When tragedies occur, we are all complicit,
not necessarily because we would support those tragedies, though some of us are ignorant enough
to do so. But because we thus far have failed to establish a society or culture, intelligence
or humane enough to protect us from that kind of deeply entrenched constant malfunction
that many of us have experienced in one way or another, regardless of our, though I will agree
that the ratios are disproportionately, that certain people are disproportionately encumbered
with the tragic results of this failure. And that's something that we all have to address together.
But if we think we can address it just by yelling at the police or even trying to change the police,
I think that's an important cause, by the way, and I absolutely agree with it.
Unfortunately, I suspect it's slightly insufficient. The culture of the police is
entrenched in the culture of our nation, the sort of circulating diseases of fictions that we,
that orient people with power and privilege and prejudice.
And weirdly, those things tend to go together, power, privilege and prejudice.
So, today my goal was merely to outline some of these important
characteristics of the situation we're currently in, and the resemblance between
an immune system gone haywire and our government, military, court system, police,
and the fact that our nation is essentially a seedbed of prison-eering run by pirates.
So, it's hard to expect better behavior from something like that, right? Like, if you look,
if we actually tear the layers of fiction away, we're gonna see really, like, we're gonna see
things we didn't want to see, right? There's disgusting, omnisidally, brutal, cruel, vicious,
avaricious atrocity, layer after layer after layer of this crap that our society is founded on,
and with a bunch of fictions, like blankets over the top of it, to keep that shit hidden
so you don't freak out, right? It's time to pull all that crap off. We need to take the
bandage all the way off and look at the toxic mess underneath, reorient ourselves together,
even in small, tightly-knit groups. That's how it begins. You don't have to change the whole
nation overnight. We have the capacity to form small, intelligent, highly efficient, tightly-knit
groups. Right now, we can do that anytime we have a conversation even, right? That's totally
accessible to us. It's low-hanging fruit in terms of, you know, how difficult is it for us to do
this? If we can do that, if we can form uniquely intelligent, nobly-imperposed, many societies,
the way our species used to and is fundamentally inclined to succeed at, because we are this kind
of animal, like dolphins or gorillas or whales. We form tightly-knit social pods,
and those pods grant us astonishing, astonishingly rewarding features of role and character
and opportunity and adventure that we innately need as human beings,
and that most of our jobs are the cruel replacements for. So there is hope, right? But it
doesn't necessarily lie in full, in like trying to change things at the scale of the entire nation,
although it's absolutely crucial that we do everything we can together to ensure that
some of the atrocities, not all of the atrocities, but the particular forms of atrocity we are
presently concerned with, that those come to an end. Now, absolutely. And that's an achievable goal.
But we're going to have to learn how to drive our government, society, and educational system
rather than be driven by it, and that's a very complex transformation. That's the large-scale
version of change, right? We are going to have to drive a system that was meant to oppress people
to do something else. And if we understand that it started out as intending to oppress people,
that's going to help us, right? That's a piece of intelligence we need if we're going to have
any chance of making meaningful change together. So the system is mispurposed at its roots,
right? It wasn't here to protect you or serve you or do any of that crap. It was here to steal
everything and wipe out the environment, hide all that damage as long as possible,
and then sort of get in, make the money, do the damage, hide it in the poor and the environment,
and then get out with big banks. That's the nature of the system we live in. It's a system formed on
the principles and ethos of piracy, essentially. And if we understand that, we're going to have
