except that the rebels mostly just get slaughtered, and the empire obliterates not just
the common people, but the history and future of life on earth, successfully all day long,
every day, and nearly nothing else ever happens. And when it does, it's on a scale so modest
that the empire can just brush it off and go on with business as usual.
And that's what's been going on for a long time. In every domain we can think of,
healthcare, politics, education, environmentalism, the formation of the possibility of building
intelligent societies, these things have just been getting ripped apart from underneath them
and replaced with little structured fictions that managed to keep the common people satisfied enough
not to do anything to violent or radical or intelligent, not to foment something that
could overthrow them. And that's what we're going to have to do. It doesn't have to be violent,
by the way. It doesn't even have to be revolutionary. We just need to invent together
society's intelligent enough, humane enough, nobly impurposed enough that they outcompete
the hot garbage, to use a friend of mine's phrase, that currently dominates the void
in the between of us where we have failed to do that together, with and for each other,
and the history of life on earth.
Now, the two topics I want to address today,
to get to one of them, and I'll probably fumble it a little bit,
and I don't feel entitled to share the story that illustrated that my dear friend,
Ryan Firstdiver, please follow him on YouTube and Facebook. His YouTube videos are
incredibly profound, particularly his videos about the living places and the living animals,
and his phenological engagement videos. But Ryan is a Blackfoot beaver man. He's one of the
last remaining beaver men of the Blackfoot people who lives in Alberta, and I encourage you to
follow him. He's one of my dearest friends, and I am privileged to be able to know him
not only as a friend, but as a teacher. And of course, he and I learned together,
and we make a pretty good pair. We switch back and forth between Sherlock Holmes and Watson all
the time, and that's a joyful and amazing privilege. When we were speaking the other day,
he told me the Blackfoot phrases that came from a story that one of his teachers,
one of his most revered teachers, whose last name I do not know,
but I will withhold his name for now.
This man is not a man to repeat things lightly, and he apparently repeated this to Ryan on a
number of occasions. Thankfully, I think I was able to understand the gist of it the first time
Ryan explained it to me the other day, and the story that he shared along with it was profoundly
illustrative of this idea. But essentially, the Blackfoot people have a word for,
suppose you are out on the plains, and maybe you have a horse or maybe not, but in the distance,
yeah, in the far distance, you see someone, and so you think, oh, there is a being,
and probably you can tell most likely, if it's far away, you might be able to tell, it is a human
being. So there is a word for, huh, often the distance there is a being, maybe a human being.
And then when it comes closer, you might be able to make out certain features.
These could be colors or symbols. These are things that resemble flags or badges
or emblems in our colonial society. And you might get the sense of, hmm, that might be
a man from this particular tribe, from some particular tribe, because you recognize
sort of the general implications of what you can see in the middle distance
between very far away and right up close. And if you get right up close, then you might see,
you'll know who this person is, maybe you will know, oh, there is, it's Darren. Huh, that's great,
it's Darren. Or, you know, it is in fact a man from my tribe or a neighboring tribe or a tribe with
which our tribe is in competition, or perhaps, I wonder if they actually have the word enemy,
because their language tends to be so astonishingly intelligent that they, they avoid, they naturally
avoid collapsing identity into explicit derivatives. Think about that for a minute, my friends.
California sagebrush, one of my ally plants that I love, about to flower, just about to flower.
They resist collapsing things into explicit derivatives, and in fact, I think this is very important,
when Ryan and I were having this discussion, he explained to me, I was speaking to him about
disambiguation and how in our culture, it's traditional, if not expected, to completely
disambiguate things, to disambiguate them all the way down to their Latinate biological names,
or that is a red-tailed hawk, that is my friend Joe, that is my enemy Charlie, whatever.
We disambiguate all the way down, and their language naturally preserves a degree of ambiguity
and openness that we could learn a lot from, but one of the things Ryan said, and I'm going to get
back to why I mentioned those three layers of distance in a moment, is that in Blackfoot,
it's very frowned upon. It's essentially taboo to say that I know something.
You can say he knows, she knows, or they know, you can get away with that, but if someone says,
like, do you know the story? Say no, I don't know the story, even if you know the story.
Can you see how intelligent this is? It is, in a way, saying I lay no claim to knowledge
as an individual. Knowledge is perhaps something we have together, but it is inappropriate,
and possibly it's inappropriate because it's lethally dangerous to communal relations
to say that I know what this is, or that is, or this isn't, or that isn't.
Do you see how different this is from our culture, and how important this one little
feature might be? This is why people ask me, like, why are you so fascinated with language?
This is why I'm so fascinated with language, because the language that we use and the way
that we use it inclines us to forms of thought and behavior and roles that we won't survive.
It's not that they're, it's not that they're not good.
They make cancer look like something you want to get. They're terrible. They're just,
it's unimaginable, and I've had a glimpse beyond this, thank goodness, thank, thank my lucky stars.
I was afforded a glimpse from beyond the scope of language, and so I very much,
I'm highly motivated to share that with my fellow English speakers, because if we are not trained
to understand the deadly common functions and features of the ways that we are trained
and rewarded for using language, our minds collapse into shells, and we might think,
you know, I'm smart, or I'm this, or I'm that. It won't help you to be smart.
You'll still be trapped in a cage you can't see because it's the cage you use to see with,
and that's one of the deadliest kinds of traps one can be in, right? When the things that you use
to see with are themselves so poorly yet subtly structured that they comprise a trap you can never
detect, and language is one of these traps, and our cultures reinforce and reward it.
So in my conversation with Ryan the other day, for which I'm so grateful,
for which I feel so lucky to have, oh yeah, here's some serious owl pellets. They're old.
Oh, there's a pretty new one, kind of small.
But yeah, there's, I know, I was already, I knew what to look for because
you see this stat here, these little traces of white on the ground, right?
That's raptor scat, and where you find a lot of raptor scat like this,
you're going to find owl pellets. Now they might not be from owls, and these pellets
are a digestive behavior of raptors,
where they don't see, they can't digest everything, right?
You can see some little bones in there, and what looks like a claw or a tooth,
oh my, this place is just littered with pellets, my goodness.
There's a skull, that's actually a skull in there.
See that?
That's the skull of another bird. No, wait, what is that? I don't know,
I don't know what that skull is. That's a really peculiar pellet. I can see the fangs,
you can see teeth. It might be the, I don't know, it's so long, too long-gated.
Hmm.
But I was aware, whoops, that this area, owl's nest here, yeah, I was aware of this.
And so what has happened is that the tall grasses have all dried out, yeah?
And since they've all dried out, the pellets that were previously hidden by the grasses
have emerged, and this process resembles the way that these layered fictions I was talking about
earlier, when the season comes for them to die off, right? When the layered fictions die off,
then underneath them, we find dead bodies. We find the dead bodies of nature,
of our fellow human beings.
Sorry, I got myself into a little trouble there for a moment accidentally. Holy shit.
That was a lot more than a little trouble. I need to leave the area.
Um, boy, that could have turned bad fast. Wow. So what happened?
Geez. It seems so metaphoric, and I'm really, really lucky right now. I'm really, really lucky.
I made a terrible mistake.
Holy crap. It's so, it's so bizarre what I was talking about. So when the overgrowth of fictions
dies down, then we find dead bodies. And what had happened was I left the path
in an attempt to bag that pellet with the skull in it for further examination.
Unbeknownst to me, I stepped right on a yellow jacket nest. For me to have not been badly stung
right now is a miracle I do not understand. As I was, I was so focused on the camera and on,
you know, what I was doing that I was not paying attention to where I was stepping.
Welcome to being human. Salveonecter. And then I saw the telltale movements of the flight patterns
of wasps. And then I saw incoming wasps. And then suddenly I realized, oh my goodness,
I'm literally standing not exactly on the opening of the nest, but within inches of it.
And wow, am I lucky. Because trust me when I tell you, you do not want to anger a nest of yellow
jackets by standing on them. And anybody ignorant enough, hi there, to pull a stunt like that?
Wow. I mean, I just got, I can't imagine how lucky I just got. I just don't even understand it.
I feel like maybe because I'm talking about nature and our relationship with it,
the spirit of my, of the way that I'm in the world right now helped me to be less
visible to the yellow jackets. Yeah. So not interpret me as an enemy, even though,
and see, this is the thing. There aren't really exactly, the idea of an enemy, it's not the,
it's not right. It's too disambiguated, right? And this is part of the problem that we're having
in our modern cultures. We're using extreme disambiguations in situations that require
ambiguity to be preserved. And it's very important that we learn about this together.
And this is part of why this topic has been common in my videos lately. Now, to get back
to the three distances, right? We're pretty good at understanding, you know, unless we're on a
battlefield, in which case things change. And it's important to notice that and to, to acknowledge
that. We're pretty good at telling, understanding, oh, it's a human being.
And at a distance, you know, we're probably not inclined to fear them,
hopefully, right? Again, depending on the context. So at a distance, yeah, it's pretty much okay.
In the middle ground, where the symbols and representations give us clues, that's where
the trouble is. That's where we're doing disambiguation based on structured fictions
of identity. And that's where the problem in our culture is. That's what racism is. That's
what genderism is. That's what classism is, right? We're, we're using the representational
shorthand to determine how we should relate with another human being. And we're not up
close. We're not intimate with them. And once we've decided how to relate with them by some,
you know, ridiculous representational shorthand, like their race or their gender. And of course,
we, by we here, I'm referring to something like the police, yeah, or hate groups, right? Or groups
that are inclined to be extremely prejudiced and celebrate prejudice. Yeah. And there are many
such groups. And some of them are very casual, right? Some of them aren't, you know, badge wearing.
But notice that the people who do wear badges and emblems, they're not relating with a human being
when they're suffocating them or beating them or telling them they're going to take them out
into a field and make them disappear and, you know, killing their family or killing their children
or killing their animals. They're not relating with them as human beings. They're relating with
them in that middle ground and that representational ground where it's not really a person, it's an
object. And it's a bad object. So we should destroy it. It'd be better if it was just destroyed.
I'm going to get to, I have another take on this. I'm actually going to be brave enough to walk past
this yellow jacket nest again, hoping that they didn't mark me with pheromones the first time.
But because I didn't get stung to shit the first time, I'm pretty sure they didn't mark me.
Because if they'd have marked me, they'd have followed me and I would not have been able to
escape. And I see the problem is I kind of want to retrieve the owl pellet. The question is,
am I brave enough to attempt it? But keep my topic in mind while I have this adventure here,
um, and hopefully don't make a really stupid mistake. Let's prep a little bit here.
Yeah, geez. Oh my God. I was standing right on their nest. Oh my God. How did I not get stung?
Huh. How did I not get stung?
Wow. That is incredible. I think I'm going to leave that owl pellet alone. Oh my God.
I was standing right on a yellow jacket nest. Like if you knew my history,
and some of my viewers do, you'd know. Like, I can't believe that I stood on a yellow jacket nest.
All right. Something is protecting me today because literally I was standing right on top of it.
And generally, once they mark you, you're out of luck. You're just like, they can follow you for,
you know, half a mile or a mile or maybe longer. Um, and they didn't sting me even once. Wow.
And I, like, they didn't, they obviously didn't mark me or they'd be chasing me. All right. And
en masse. Whew. Boy, I dodged a bullet that time. I'm going to leave that owl pellet alone.
I could come back for it at night if I wanted to. Presuming I was in here once the nest,
um, becomes inactive. I could go back for that pellet, but nope. I'm leaving that thing where it
is. I'm not going near that thing. I can't believe I was, I was literally standing right on top of
a yellow jacket nest. Huh. You know, I think that's, that's metaphoric, right? Because what I was talking
about when I was doing that is exactly the problem. Um, humans think nature is dangerous or blah,
blah, blah. No, it's humans that are dangerous to nature. And when we ignore, you know, and we're
not paying attention and we're just sort of pursuing our own little fictions and desires,
then we step right on things that we should be paying attention to.
Hmm. This is a time when, uh, many queen bumblebees die. I've helped a few of them lately. Sometimes
they can't be saved. Uh. Now of course, if the people in the park noticed that nest,
they try to eradicate it, which is wrong. Um, putting up a sign to alert people is okay.
Eradicating it, that's dumb. That's just wrong. It's like cutting off one of your own fingers
because you scratched yourself with it, right? Uh, the creatures in the, the living beings
in the world, we are extensions of them. We cannot harm them without harming ourselves.
And when we dump, harm wholesale into the oceans and the forests, the waves of repercussion that
will come back to haunt us for generations, you don't even want to understand what's hiding behind
the layered fictions we protect our minds and hearts with. And those fictions have worn thin
because we've been hiding damage in the ecologies and the poor and the defenseless
for so damn long with such incredible hubris, such unjustifiable hubris, um, arrogance that
there's no chance we're going to escape the repercussions. No chance.
This is a feather of one of the owls
that quite possibly produced those pellets. And what I was going to say earlier is that
there's a, um, there's a pair of nesting owls over there. And I've known that for a long time,
but to only today is the first time when the grasses have been dry enough that I can see all
the pellets. I knew they were there, but I couldn't find them. And this is the same season when the
yellowjackets and paper wasps and other similar organisms are very busy. Yeah.
Oh, here's a, here's a Cooper's hawk. I don't know if you'll be able to see it.
Oh, that could be, it could be a red tail.
It saw me. It saw my camera too, for sure. It was so well camouflaged, I was lucky to notice it.
By the way, we use fictions to camouflage atrocity. That's why we have newspapers and
Facebook and Instagram and Twitter and all this stuff. That stuff's just mostly
camouflaged for atrocity. This, pretty sure, this is quinoa.
So are people have a real serious problem with that middle distance? And this is what Ryan
