And I don't have to admit the initial defection because it's generally unconscious anyway,
right? Nobody's conscious of that. Although it's my experience
that many people are conscious of that. And
in my experience, females are uniquely adapted for consciousness about this
or at least awareness of it, whether or not they know what to do
in the minefield of making language about it, right?
Many of the most intelligent people I know, and I'll admit it's not a huge group, but there's,
I mean, everyone's intelligent in their own way. But the people who sort of stand out is
really capable
users of mines, right, or makers of mines.
They're very, very careful about language, each in a unique way.
They might have some overlap with some of the others, but
they're aware of the traps. However, that awareness is embodied in them. They're aware of the traps of
declaration. They know, like, when you make a declaration, especially if you use the word is,
the dimensionality available disappears into that declaration. Dimensionality of meaning,
identity, perspective. Dimensionality of a sensible observer. All of these things collapse.
And while occasionally useful, if we play that game without awareness,
our minds end up collapsing into that mess. And we can't tell because our minds are what we tell with.
Right. So as those collapse, imagine a joke
that's so hilarious that each time you watch it, it makes you dumber. And if I've used this trope
before, forgive me, but it's still appropriate here. So there's a joke, right, that's so hilarious,
some skid or whatever, a video, that each time you watch it, you get dumber, which makes that same
skit funnier. So now you're in this recursive loop of it makes me laugh harder every time I see it,
and I get dumber every time I see it. I can't tell that I'm getting dumber, I can only tell that
that's funnier. And there's something like this in both individual intelligence and consciousness,
maybe even awareness. I've been certainly at the group level. There's all this stuff going on
where every time we touch it, we get dumber and that makes us want to touch it again right away
or need to or something. It's hard to overcome that except that
I mean, there's not a single, again, A, I don't know what I'm talking about and B,
there's not a single answer. But there's ingredients, right, that we know are useful.
And deeply meaningful social relation, identity, role, interaction, possibility space,
that stuff for humans, we need it as much as we need food.
And if we're starved over there, we're going to collapse toward low hanging, right, reward fruit
or counterfeit reward fruit.
And living beings reach heartfully in presence toward other living beings.
As if there's a between space, right, as if the unique,
incredibly dimensionalized space between all participants in life on earth,
including from outside of time, but we'll keep it in time for now.
That between space lights up with transformations anytime we relate with anything at all.
Even in, even inanimate things, although the outcome of that
is of questionable value in a lot of cases. So I saw a guy,
there were, we were in a parking lot and there were many pigeons
because a woman feeds them there.
And a guy just, you know, threw his keys up in the air and all the pigeons, you know, they pulsed.
And you can explain that away with adaptation, threat response,
but you'll never encompass that phenomenon with those, those ideas ever.
It contains dimensions we don't have categories for. How will you encompass it in language?
This too is the problem of knowledge, right? Once you think you know,
once the human cognizium thinks it knows what's going on there, we've thrown away 98% of the universe
that we can't encompass for that little derivative. And then we've mistaken that
little derivative for the whole damn thing. We make the first mistake, the second mistake
encompasses everything, right? Because if you have the wrong idea about what organisms are,
how are you going to have a right idea? I mean, right in what context? Obviously not the actual
context, which is pulsing with, you know, centropic hypersystems of organismal relation
in the between of all beings, just like when that guy, you know, threw his key up, his keys
up, the birds pulsed, right? But he wasn't the only one there. I was there too, and I didn't pulse.
And the birds are relating with me of a certainty and I am relating with them and
the purposes and forms of relation transform that between, right? And they can light it up,
or they can darken it, or they can crush it, or they can
they can advance it into new superpositions by orders of magnitude, right? You can easily see
this between humans and dogs and cats, but it can happen with any kind of organism. And it can
happen with organisms themselves. And so there's this between place that's meta. It's like the
space where meta aliveness is, you know, pulsing and storming around and
inventing new ways to be beyond together. And that's really where everything's going on.
It's not over here in language. It's not over here in description, right? Either we're in that
relational space authentically in various dimensions and degrees, and hopefully those
grow over time explosively because they naturally are made to do this, or the first move, right,
collapses onto the side of declaration, abstraction, theorizing,
narritizing, confusing those products with our own identity, attaching to them,
collapsing awareness, consciousness, and intelligence into these little
chachkies
that are primarily
when misused or when used in contexts where this is inappropriate or damaging.
Those things are primarily toxic, harmful,
and they're like the gravestones where relation and intelligence died.
And this isn't the only thing knowledge is,
as I've said a number of times.
What knowledge becomes for us emerges primarily from
the ways we learn or are
scripted to enact very crude methods compared to those we are capable of naturally.
So the problem with knowledge
isn't, it's complex.
The low-hanging fruit is really toxic. Up near the top of the tree, things get better.
There's one way of thinking about it.
All of life, with the possible exception of humans,
is viscerally engaged in recognition. And ordinary organisms, ants, one of the things
I wanted to say earlier was, I wish I could advance
the inconceivable courage of a mouse.
Because most of the courage I advance, although there are human forms,
but it doesn't seem to measure up much to the constant,
actual embodied necessity of, my life is on the line, every move I make from birth till death.
Everything I will encounter will try to either kill me or eat me, mostly, with a few exceptions.
And I'm a tiny little thing and all the other animals are gigantic.
And humans have technology.
Mouse killing technology, like they invented whole technologies to wipe out my people.
So yeah, I wish I could have the courage of a mouse.
And I have great reverence for mice, it's not just a joke.
In my view, they're like the explorers of death.
They've died in ways that other creatures have never imagined and hopefully will never experience.
I mean, not, you know, they're like the lab animal, there's just the mice.
Those things are, those beings, I have great reverence for them to put it mildly.
And I wish I could advance their courage.
You know, if I had a shield, it wouldn't be Darren the lion hearted, it would be Darren the mouse hearted.
I believe in those incredibly intelligent little creatures that are much older than our species
in more than one way, right? They're not merely older.
There's been more generations of mice than our species will ever, you know, get near.
Right. So there's this lineage age thing that magnifies over populations and out distances flat time.
Right. Yeah, I wish I had the courage of a mouse.
In the between of all beings, in relation.
There's a signaling.
There's a primordial signaling language.
In fact, there's a number of them.
These are languages or frameworks in which a signal can be transmitted across any distance
any time, any group of beings and any particular beings.
It's a very old network that existed long before life on earth.
Life on earth grew up in the sunlight of this network and our minds were forged in the sunlight
of this network in my, from the perspective that I'm playing with together with you here.
If the crow
makes its pulsed call.
And I make its pulsed call or emulate it badly, crudely.
The crow becomes aware
that there's a non-crow mind interacting with it.
That changes everything. That changes what kind of mind I can have. That changes the crow.
Perhaps only momentarily and very locally, but that momentary change gets transmitted.
Blue and red are well-known signals.
Whether they're known by things with eyes or not.
But there seems to be a sort of a root signal.
A signal of recognition.
And I think we use and seek this signal.
Though again, it's dangerous to make face noises about it.
It can be emulated, but only crudely.
And in the domain where the signal functions, signals that mimic it are
are attended appropriately. Let's put it that way.
So it can be faked and we can be in a sort of phony overlay
in consciousness or awareness or intelligence where it looks like the signal is being emitted.
There's a resemblance of the signal. And sometimes resemblances of the signal are important,
but sometimes they lead to mimics.
Signal of recognition.
In a child's language.
The signal of recognition comes way before language.
It's not just visceral. It's something that pulses in the core of our essence, naturally, primordially.
But in child's language, it would be something like,
I remember you from before we were born.
As if, oh, I recognize you from the body of origin place.
Right? Before we were even distinguished physically, you know, or in a thousand other ways.
Oh, I remember you, the sun. Oh, I remember you, the moon. Oh, I remember you, the tree.
I remember you, the mouse. I remember you, my brother. I remember you, my sister. I remember you, my mother.
I remember you, my son, my daughter. I remember you, grandfather, grandmother. Oh, I remember you from before.
And the signal is hard to fake because the actual thing is so resonantly deep and rich
that even though it's uniquely deep and rich in any given, you know, actual situation or relationship,
it's hard to fake because that richness is really deep and resonant.
And human social interactions and mating behavior and stuff, it orbits this,
this signal of recognition. Oh, I remember you. I do. From the before, from the before of language,
from before ideas, before skeletons, before, you know, worlds, I remember you from before everything.
We are medikin, right? We were kin before there were kin.
And everything alive and every intelligence, it knows this signal.
And each of them respond in ways unique to how they're embodied, but they all respond.
There is no real word for this, but love, authentic love, presuming there is some inauthentic love,
is one of the consequences of there having been signal of recognition activity.
Yeah.
The children have it very naturally. The adults have, you know, each one uniquely has some or
is lost it or it's occluded.
There's something deeply sacred about this matter and it's a primordial matter.
We ache to emit and receive the signal of recognition. And this is deep, deep in the foundations of our
nature as social animals, as social beings, as social humans.
We refer to it in common English as being seen and not being seen.
Visual analogy is appropriate but narrow compared to the actual depth because we
we certainly don't just mean with his eyes, he saw me with her eyes. She's, she saw me.
Coyote Scott.
So there's something sacred there.
And we must be careful about knowledge.
It's, it emits this, it has a strange gravitic quality, right, that
we should resist complete collapsing into
and we should be sensitive. It would be well if we were sensitive,
would be well if I could be sensitive, learn to be more sensitive about where
my relationship with knowledge and intellect and theories and models overwhelms
the upper orders of my mind or I become really identified with some
framework or theory or behavior that rather than leading me toward insight and learning
is actually making me dumber every time I grab onto it, right?
If we preserve a space above the collapse for consciousness,
then our intelligence becomes less prone to drag us, to drag like awareness,
identity, awareness, you know, all the way down into tokens where essentially it's
counterfeited, right? But the product looks really shiny and good a lot of the time,
so this is part of why it's deceptive.
Maybe if I'm very lucky,
in my video today, there's a
fragrance or the flavor of that
signal of recognition,
a fundamental mutuality in violet,
in beauty.
