Hey everybody, thanks for joining me, I'm getting a little exercise in the smoke, slightly
better today, which is nice.
You may be in for a relatively incoherent bird walk today, because I'm trying to operate
outside my normal structure, and I thought to myself, I'm going to let the voices in
me that have no language or rarely speak, I'm going to invite them in, without knowing
how to do that, without knowing what that means, without an explanation, without even
a narrative, I just thought I'll make this gesture in my awareness, and it isn't like
I know what I'm doing or I'm good at it, I don't know what I'm doing.
In fact, it's worse than that, or maybe better.
I honestly don't know what I'm talking about, and that seems to be a kind of unstated prerequisite
for all kinds of things, that the people who are interesting to listen to know what
they're talking about, and surely there's a scope in which that's true, there's some
true value there, it's not the only true thing, it's not the only way to see.
But no, I honestly don't know what I'm talking about, and I'm, at once, speechlessly fascinated
with this stuff we point at with the word knowledge, ceaselessly fascinated with this,
and at the same time extremely suspicious, and terrified, but also mischievously frightened,
playfully frightened. There was a snail in a bad spot, so hopefully this is a better one.
So I decided I would have a very tiny adventure, I'm really good at this, it keeps getting
smaller but it's still there. I thought I would have a really tiny adventure and go
for a walk, and it isn't even really that I thought, and I'll need to back up here.
I think, I'll speak for myself, but I suspect it's uniquely familiar to nearly everyone,
this really quirky thing I'm going to try and point at. And one way to sort of joke
about it is, by the time I start making face noises, a significant portion of my awareness
has collapsed into something that closely resembles lying. Again, not always, but in
a way that's shot through our common relationships with speaking and thought. Our naivete about
the sophistication of the toys we're playing with in consciousness that our consciousness
tends to collapse into, so that awareness disappears and we become identified with the content with
the words, the words are very compelling. They're so compelling that with little more than words,
we can transform the mind of someone paying attention dramatically in a rainbow of ways.
And each of us has some unique local kind of visceral awareness, at least of this,
whether or not it's conscious. So, I don't really know what I'm talking about because it hasn't
collapsed. And I'm following but the most skeletal of agendas at the moment, though I have a couple
of little, you know, circles on my map, and I guess I have a map. However, sketchily described it
might be. So, it's tricky to be aware. Tricky's the wrong word I want. It's a bit adventurous to
be aware that as I become fascinated with language and ideas and thoughts and descriptions and
narratives and models and comparisons and accounting and all of these kinds of things. The spaciousness
of uncollapsed awareness is departing into those little tree branches. And so,
it's also ironic that I can make face noises about the problem with the collapse that comes
before face noises. The largely unacknowledged collapse, particularly when we're, you know,
our speech is like a song. It has rhythms and tempo and once it begins, it sort of rolls itself along.
Not intrinsically, well, it's not intrinsically deceptive. It's
unself-deceiving. It's weirder than that. It has to do with how we learned and what we learned about
the toys we're playing with, toys capable of dominating. Our awareness, our consciousness,
our identity, our understanding, how we make meaning, which cuts we make in categories and
comparisons, which ones we don't, which ones we refuse to make, why all these things are wrapped
up in the cocoon of the developmental evolution of the consciousness of our species and the history of
both the choices made, you know, as peoples or as the entire branch of our species
and the choices made by individuals the relationships had and missed. All of this is folded into
our experience of consciousness, but worse than an iceberg, it's almost all hidden from us.
And what hides it are primarily ideas, language concepts, habitual uses of language collapsing
our consciousness into declarations. And so I'll often say when I'm
really close with someone else in a conversation or relating, we might be talking
and I'll suddenly say, oh, I don't trust my mouth about this.
I'm just trying to say that
I see many other people struggle with the same kind of awareness, though they're not
formally conscious of it. They're pre-parsing and pre-criticizing and pre-judging as if there
were a circle of people around them in the moment who would direct, you know, judgments at them
while they're trying to speak, right, they're trying to say something deeply felt
and there are particularly uniquely minded people in whom this inclination is
sort of become part of their
way of being in consciousness in such a deep way that it's almost physical, right, it's no longer
merely cognitive, it's become embedded in their nervous systems. And this is true to some degree
of all of us, I think. When we are enabled to look in these directions,
we can leap across the gap sometimes alone, sometimes together between
how our consciousness and awareness is entrained to collapse and its origin, right, prior to the
collapse-ness. And that aspect, it's as if we have like two other bodies, at least in the
perspective I'm holding at the moment. One of those bodies dwells in groups of humans
from just me and you to all of the humans in all kinds of different ways. One aspect of our
other body dwells there and there's another aspect that like that one
one, dwells in and with all of life on earth, every organism here.
And not just those that are here, those that have been, those that will be, we have relationships
each one of us uniquely. So in this toy, right, there's a human body, there's an all life body
and there's kind of a, you know, we could make the diagram however we want, but above that there's
the before, the origin, our body in origin. And this one down here is intimately relating up and down
this, these concentric spheres, right, which each one is very complex, but we can just make
them into circles or spheres. So we not only have access to, you know, in the perspective I'm
entertaining, we not only have access to these other bodies, our capacity to form awareness
arises in that relationship. And I'm not trying to say how things are, I'm just making a perspective
toy, right, a way of looking. And again, what I'm trying to say is that I don't know what I'm talking
about. I'm trying to see, not know, right, trying to learn to see. And once I get involved in making
face noises, or before that, like chains of thought, though I'm not entirely against those games,
when I'm paying attention carefully from above the field of play, right,
I don't trust them a lot, or it is common that I find them untrustworthy, is more careful
language. And again, there's plenty of exceptions. I'm not dismissing the whole field of play.
I'm more saying, hmm, there's some fundamental qualities of
the scalar domains of our consciousness, right? If I put, for example, as I heard Roger Penrose do,
he made a toy of little spheres, or I think he would probably prefer manifolds, and I would too,
but where consciousness is out here, and that way lies mystery,
we're actually now, excuse me, awareness is out here, the big one, and that way lies mystery,
and then consciousness as a subdomain in awareness, and then intelligence
as a subdomain in consciousness in awareness. And
there's dangerous gravity wells in all three of these fields, spheres,
but particularly in intelligence, and that's where knowledge lives.
And I'm laughing because
ordinarily, in English, in common parlance, knowledge is an asset and a virtue.
As if it had this quality objectively, right? As if that quality were implicit in knowledge itself.
But we do well to see the shadow of this thing that is at least
a corollary of the, a number of very old stories, but particularly in Genesis, where
I think the story is very weird, right? And I like that it's weird, and it certainly
can't be interpreted merely, literally, and make any sense at all, nor do I think
that was the intention of the authors and the editors.
But it's not merely analogical either, it's got this peculiar quality of timeless pointing
at an actual disaster somewhere in the proto-history of our species, or the spirit of our species,
or both, or, you know, there's this real problem that intrudes.
And it's referred to as knowledge, but I may have this wrong. I think the Hebrew word is
doth, ti, dalet, aleph.
Yeah, I can't remember the exact spelling.
But essentially, knowledge is equated with death in this parable, and it's, I think,
it's a meta-parable, right? It's, it's pointing at something so fundamental
that if you make one move without noticing it, you'll never notice it,
because you'll just fall down the path of that first move.
And there are aspects of our consciousness, you know, there are aspects in our awareness,
and consciousness, and intelligence that are precisely prone to this kind of mistake.
They can, they have the property of falling off the cliff of their first move.
And this is because the first move, for example, saying, I don't know what I'm talking about,
changes the entire future. The, the possibility space of all futures are changed by that first
move. And we can understand this analogically if we think about the conception of an organism,
like a human being, for example, where a swarm of sperm,
a cloud of living organisms traverse this incredible, anciently evolved,
how am I even going to refer to that,
bio-relational hyper-structure?
They traverse the living, the embodied living history, not merely of mammals, but of life on
earth, anew, as if for the first time, and as if every moment this ever happened was being
re-instanced across the impossible gap, the gap between the parents first, right?
And then eventually, probably intelligently modulated by the fertile egg,
one of them lands on the membrane, penetrates it, electrochemically, probably,
in scientific jargon, but something else a lot more than that's going on there,
leaves its tail
comprised of a specific organelle out on the outside of the egg, it leaves,
if it were a rider, it leaves its horse on the other side of the membrane and departs one universe
and becomes a new universe inside a living mother.
So you can see how that first move, right, wherever we place it,
is it the birth of the mother and father, wherever in time you place the first move,
but you can select, we can narrow the scope down to,
which sperm penetrates the egg, and that's not merely a competition, it's a group effort, right?
It is as if the entire cloud of sperm are a single organism and individuals
and they promote, right, from within, they are continuously promoting
not just specific sperm but groups of sperm and eventually out of this process of ongoing
recursive promotion, a small cluster of actual candidates emerges
and from there the first move, right?
And that move becomes a human being, right? It transmits lineage assets across that gap between
the families and the mother, like the egg managing incoming contenders,
which there's some evidence for,
is catalyzing all of this
and is embodying the,
embodying the origin space, right, the before of embodiment.
But yeah, the problem, one of the problems is that our minds are oriented in such a way that
we can fall down. If we make the wrong very first move, the first cut matters most,
we can just fall off the cliff of bad moves thereafter
and continue on making face noises, as if nothing were amiss, right?
Because once we've lost what we see with, we only see the result of that loss
and so that starts to look normal and ordinary and trustworthy and repeatable and all kinds of things.
In that origin story,
I sometimes think of it as if, and as if thinking is helpful again,
I don't know what I'm talking about. Well, I should go back to the problem with knowledge,
but the mother's emitting a signal
and the man is emitting a signal to the father. They're both emitting different sort of
polarities of signals usually, but not always and there's a mix, it's a complex mess.
Yeah, the problem with knowledge is that it has the propensity in our species
to both falsify identity, right, meaningfully accessible relational roles
and spaces, relational spaces, can just collapse those into declarations. Oh, it's a tree. It's just a
bunch of trees. Meanwhile, in that person's mind, their relationship with identity has
collapsed into a simple tokenized declaration. It's an artifact of relationships not had,
it's an artifact of intelligence not developed, right? It's like a little badge you get for
defecting from everything that is rich and meaningful and true and profound in human life
because you found in language a structure that you, let's, you know,
do you want to be the structure? Somehow even, it would be bad if the way we use language
merely collapsed the identities outside of us, but when it does that, it's collapsing our own mind
with it, right? So our own relation space, our own, the dimension where our imagination dwells
and plays and is deeply involved in selectively transmitting
otherwise inconceivable assets and faculties and opportunities for relation and identity and
role together, right? And alone. All of this stuff is prone to just collapse into things
we can spit out of our mouths. And it's, again, very ironic for me to be aware of this while
making face noises because I'm making face noises. So there's kind of a guideline for me
that helps me resist
believing what I'm saying. And
and wandering
and putting together a little basket, right, of inspirations, wonders, questions, passions,
um, playful imperatives. As I wander, that's not the same thing as spitting out some theory or
even an analogy, right, which I just used. I think that's goofy, uh, because my mind is sort of
right noticing its own. It's noticing the irony. Yeah, it's noticing the irony.
I don't really know what I'm doing, but I'm a little suspicious. I'm suspicious, I'm suspicious
about my own relationship with knowledge and that which I see enacted by other people and groups.
I'm very suspicious about this. At the same time, I'm not merely suspicious. Like I said,
I'm fascinated. I play in that field. I think I became suspicious because I noticed that sometimes
when I was feeling very profound emotions and some of them might be uncomfortable,
a number of them certainly were. I can easily depart that feeling of sort of existential insecurity
into complex, right, and again, to talk about this now, I'm starting to do it, right? I can't.
So I'm trying to balance between the awareness of, I don't know, these face-noise things.
And what about the feelings underneath that are, you know, charged and confusing and
and some of them painful or anxious or whatever?
So I have the propensity to fall off that same cliff
because I can easily appear skillful in language relatively easily. It requires some work.
And hopefully I appear skillful sometimes.
I can just sort of direct
the ongoing collapse of awareness into consciousness into intelligence, representational cognition.
I can just follow that thread. I'll make that first move, right, defect from those feelings.
And then I'll follow the tree of branches till I find something I can play with in a
way that to me seems somehow, I don't know what, good or insightful or charismatic or
whatever the qualities I'm after. And then I just keep making face noises.
