But I was very surprised to discover
the incredibly obvious to someone who was still alive outside me, to someone who was sensitive
and aware in the moment of my speaking.
That maybe throughout my entire life
I would retreat from my heart into constructs,
into language.
And if not but for a number of accidents, I'm sure I would have become a scientist
and or a mathematician.
But I made my home in language and music.
And I'm extremely thankful for the influence of the latter
because the former is insufficient and the latter is its origin.
When I was little I liked to sing.
But after I'd had this conversation with a family member and had been very
emotionally affected by it,
I had unknowingly retreated into abstraction and intellect.
And someone with whom I was in conversation later remarked on this.
They said, everything you're talking about is very abstract right now.
And that's when suddenly the light came on, the light of insight.
And I saw that I was feeling very vulnerable and I didn't know how to protect my heart.
And I needed, I was hungry for comfort and care, but there was none to be had.
So I did what kind of defensively comes natural naturally to me.
I switched orientations, I switched tracks.
And that was a really profound moment of discovery for me because I could see
suddenly this thread leading all the way back into my early history.
That I didn't feel safe emotionally in the world of culture,
in a world where language can determine my fate.
In a world where institutions were poised to rob me of my humanity, replacing that
with the skeletal remains of what I might otherwise, of who I might otherwise be and become.
And so I learned as best I could the ways of the institutions and the language.
I learned to be articulate.
I learned to use my voice musically.
I learned to present perspectives and arguments that were deep and rich.
And in truth, my heart informed my intellect from its subterranean hiding places and still does.
But over time, the increasing intensity and pace of the invasive malignancy
held sway.
It overwhelmed me.
And I wasn't aware that I was switching tracks though.
During the experience, I had been reminded of this.
During the experience that resembles rebirth, I had been shown your intellect will not sustain
that which is primordial within you.
And in fact, in many cases, it will or must occlude it.
Which is another way of saying that
true primacy is not a matter for dissemination or analysis.
It's like the living truth of nature.
It's alive.
It's not a construct.
And it's
not.
It's peculiarly ambiguous essences cannot be transferred into statements or language.
Though they can be pointed toward in language
with great skill or creativity.
And song adds dimensions that language denudes.
And this is in part why music is so important to us human beings.
It can return some
space, some oxygen to our felt sense of the moment that might
and sometimes encourages our hearts and our souls and our essence.
To recognize itself reflected in the music and to come forth.
Perhaps even to feel celebrated and recognized.
To be seen, acknowledged.
Validated if only for a moment in the world of constructs.
These things I speak of are wrapped in mystery.
The mystery of their origins.
And it's a mystery I've long pursued.
Because I'm deeply curious about
the strange experience, strange in relation to all of the other organisms of being human.
And it seems to me an astonishing privilege to be human.
In so many ways that I'll not even begin the list.
The flavor of truthfulness that the living places present directly to our senses.
Is the same flavor.
Of our true interiority, our essence, our primordial humanity.
And where constructs intervene.
Though we cannot deny the fact of their presence.
This thing is right here now.
They had to put cement on the ground.
They had to kill the surface of the earth to ensure that the soil could support this monstrosity.
And it's analogous to what happens with us.
We become storage containers for constructs.
We're paved over.
This thing is absolutely a fact.
It's a physical fact.
I cannot doubt it is there.
But the dimensionality of the truth.
In this case.
It has collapsed the inherently
multitudinous dimensions of living places.
Into and toward complete disambiguation, concrete limited factual existence.
It does not support life.
It's a pure construct.
Different from a stick or a stone.
Because it was manufactured intentionally by humans.
To evict ambiguity in life.
And it's astonishing yet also completely ordinary.
That we've become in general unconscious of this.
These are constructs.
They are meant to pervade over living things.
To supersede them.
To dominate them.
To transform them into manipulables.
And what is it that is so profoundly motivated to convert our humanity, all of nature.
Our essence.
Into concrete manipulables.
What is it?
There's different ways to think about it.
But it's the strange, ironic ghost.
Of what we were not allowed or brave enough.
To sustain and invent together.
Communion.
Co-being.
Symbiotic union.
The recognition of self in and as other.
The blatantly obvious fact.
That our world is a tiny island.
An unimaginable paradise.
In what appears to be so far.
An otherwise unfriendly to complex life.
Field of potential from which stars and planets and living beings emerge.
We have a little tiny boat.
Though it seems big from our perspective.
It can be obliterated by a single gesture.
Forever.
And unfortunately our species.
In our profound addiction to infascination by constructs.
Is urgently pursuing the mission.
Of silencing the living world.
It's this ghost.
It's the vengeful ironic hubris.
Emergent from the idea.
That our species is special.
We are.
But not in that way.
That our species to survive has to make war.
Against the living beings and the living places and our own bodies and our own minds.
And do this whole reverse Pinocchio thing.
Her objects and dead repercussions of representational activity are seen as precious.
And that with which we see is slowly converted.
Into dead tissue.
Into skeletal remains.
But it may seem that my my mood is grim.
But I'm still passionate.
I recognize the likeness of my essence in the living places.
In the smallest living thing.
In the largest living thing.
Of course I mean beings not things.
I recognize the infinite truthfulness.
Of lived relationships and living places.
As pervading over the kinds of bizarre constructs in language and thought and theory.
That we are trained to say are true or false.
That kind of truth is extremely provisional.
It's profoundly circumstantial.
But the truthfulness of living beings and places is not.
It is infinite.
So let us not trade pennies.
For the accessible possibility of participating in the origin of value itself.
And understanding you know as we learn to understand these things of which I speak.
We can enact that understanding by retrieving the potential.
For our primordial essence.
For our sensitivities.
For our hearts to be safe in the world together.
With and for each other.
With and for the history and future of all living beings.
All beings.
We live in a time.
When the pathological insufficiency and blatant lying.
That forms the basis of the institutions with which we are familiar.
Is now readily apparent to nearly everyone.
But no longer requires in the institutional dimension a foreign power to take down America.
We're going to DIY that.
And that's evidence of the Pinocchio gambit in full effulgence right in full flower.
The reverse Pinocchio gambit.
We're going to do it for them.
We're going to take ourselves down.
For what would have otherwise been our enemies.
But now that we've joined their project somehow we're on the same side.
And this is the backwards version of communion right.
We're so intrinsically divided as a as a nation.
Which isn't at all surprising.
Again because this thing was founded on blankets of lies.
Furiously blatant obvious lies.
From day one.
From before the first move.
So that ironic ghost right.
That's inhabiting the between of us.
And even the inner between of aspects of our own minds and our heart and our essence.
That thing is rising to sudden shocking prominence.
As if we'd half accidentally summoned a world-eating demon.
But we didn't have to summon it.
In the absence of communion of unity of intelligence of insight of care.
Of our heart full essence.
We didn't have to summon it.
We became it.
And I sometimes imagine how confusing this may appear.
To future generations if our species survives.
Presuming that they acquire some liberation from all I hear discuss.
Presuming they require some they acquire some immunity to the reverse Pinocchio gambit.
And the Potemkin village gambit.
Right now there's a genocide going on in our own nation against our own people.
Prosecuted by our own people.
Of course again all the constructs are suspicious.
But the irony is overwhelming.
And it matches the degree of hubris.
