With which while standing on a skyscraper of lies we've been proclaiming our superiority
and authority and validity and
I guess that's a common result of the insecurity that is natural.
When standing on a mountain of layers of lying that goes back to the earliest
point we can identify with.
If we identify with being American for example or Americans.
So I'm I'm disturbed and I'm nervous and there's so much going on I don't understand.
Even though in talks like these I try to find some kind of path I can trust to traverse together
with you.
Not the truth but something moving in the direction of truthfulness.
Concrete facts are the cognitive and an analogy of that storage container.
All ambiguity has been evacuated which means there's a vacuum.
And in that vacuum what naturally happens is the intrusion of the seeds of constructs
and institutions and you know institutional narratives and so on and so forth.
And that space has to be kept open right.
The power of science and technology was deceptive.
Because it moved not so much in the direction of truth.
But even what we consider to be reliable conceptual disambiguation or concreteness.
Irrefutability.
And that motivation.
Is poisonous.
To our humanity.
And our hearts.
Because they are incompletely formed they are arriving into formation as we proceed.
And so when concrete facts emerge in the landscape of mind.
It injures that formation.
And has the capacity to put an end to developmental opportunities.
While appearing to be the agent of accomplishing them.
Once and for all finished accomplishment.
It's very tricky this whole representational cognition game.
It's very confusing.
And whether one's religious or not.
The.
It's hard to understand who has a better advantage.
Religious people can be blinded in certain ways very easily by their religion.
And intellectual people almost start out necessarily blind in certain ways.
With their religion.
And so both of the things can blind us.
But what I'm trying to point out is just that.
It is as if.
If we don't make something.
That moves in the direction of truthfulness together.
If we don't do that intentionally.
And keep correcting our course and keep sort of checking with nature and our hearts and our essence.
Then something else there in intrudes and occupies that terrain.
And that stuff.
It looks evil.
It looks like death.
It looks like death.
And our exposure to the to the constructs and institutions in childhood.
It's like a first death and there's a second one and a third one and a fourth one.
Right.
We keep over our lifetimes as we serve these constructs.
Half against our will.
We begin to take on their likeness.
And after a time what's left is an easily manipulable puppet.
And what is manipulating it is that ghost thing.
Now I'm not saying these things are true or that I want you to believe them.
I'm not stating them as facts.
I'm offering a library of perspectives.
If some of them seem useful to you.
Take them up for a time and see if they're helpful.
If they don't.
Leave them be.
But I think your heart may hear the music.
That your intellect is deaf to.
Or your intellect may hear its reflection and become thus fascinated.
That second option is very dangerous.
But could conceivably.
Result downstream.
In you switching orientations.
And becoming oriented by something the intellect can never can encompass or dominate.
And perhaps you've recognized in my talk.
Some aspects of.
Situations and behaviors familiar to you from your own life.
In ways that might help you to overcome their otherwise.
Significant gravity.
In ways that might help you to achieve the analog of escape velocity.
All that has invaded and evicted our primordial essence our hearts our sensitivities.
The faculties we embody.
As potential in humans but so rarely have the opportunity.
To fulfill.
I trust infinite truthfulness.
Above the concrete derivations of presentable truth.
I trust relation.
Over derivation.
And I am still confused.
And I am still naive.
And I am still very vulnerable.
But if we shall be vulnerable.
Let us learn to do so together in ways.
That allow us.
To experience and express.
The precious.
Endowments.
That life on earth.
And the history of our species.
Is hidden within us.
Thank you for joining me.
