Hey everybody. Thank you for joining me. Thank you for your kindness and paying attention.
As I often am these days, trying to relax a little bit here, I am in the midst of a
variety of deeply conflicting imperatives, perspectives, ideas, concerns, dreams and grievances.
I suspect that I'd not far miss the mark if I suggested that this is familiar to you.
Ironically, I'm standing at this moment in something that I can absolutely depend on
the truthfulness of. I'm physically in the context right now, even though it was intentionally
framed and assembled by humans. I'm standing in a living place, and I consider living places
not merely the arbiters of truth, but the embodiments, the expressions, the instancing
of a kind of truthfulness, a degree of completely trustworthy presence that language and ideas
cannot approach. I don't pretend to complete understanding.
And in fact, there are faculties proximal and appropriate to our humanity that profoundly
and perhaps even divinely comprise a superposition far above ideas and concepts and language and
qualities and naming and distinctions. And even though I am nervous, I find this comforting.
The living places are not verbal.
Very few of the animals, other than our species, depend upon language, which is inherently
receptive to enact their essential natures, their beingness.
Yet, for reasons which are very complex and historical, our species
entrusts, precious, irrevocable aspects of our essence to constructs,
to language, to concepts, to institutions.
And whether or not there may be actual gods or divine beings,
and it's my direct experience that there are, there is something that resembles
this category very closely, closely enough.
Language and institutions, constructs, including machines,
including even the device upon which I forge this recording,
have in fact invaded
the interiority of our humanity collectively and individually.
And these processes have leveled up dramatically
in recent decades.
And now comprise a threat so malignant and sophisticated
that it could never have been forged on purpose.
Though purpose is always involved in constructing it and in our submission to it.
Sometimes when the pace of my talk is slower,
I gain something resembling liberty.
Because instead of following the sort of train tracks of my habits and agenda,
I can listen
for the otherwise overwhelmed signals
of my heart, or my soul, my essence.
This place, this moment, these circumstances right here, right now.
Those of you who are familiar with my work or are personal friends,
know that I often present, in other words, my outward-facing costume.
Resembles a modestly advanced
intellectual or philosopher.
But long before that, I am human.
And before that, I am an organism.
And before that, I am the living expression
of the history and future of life on earth, of life itself.
And perhaps of origin itself, of that which we often refer to as the divine.
And it's interesting that
that this particular word is commonly employed.
Because that first portion of it, that first phoneme, div, means to cut.
And this is perhaps why I often prefer the word origin to divinity.
That O-R sound,
the word origin is a word whose alphabetics
point at communion rather than division, it seems to me right now.
And if we get off on the wrong foot, or if we start out in a way that
we then have to commit to and continue, by dividing things in our minds and hearts,
then we ourselves become divided by that activity, both individually and communally.
And though I deeply appreciate my intellect and my philosophical inclinations,
I've lately come to understand something which should reasonably be very obvious,
and yet has not been so for me.
That as an extremely emotionally sensitive person, as a person capable of feeling into
the pain or experience or emotions of others, real and imagined,
even those presented to me by media,
the world is not a safe place for my heart.
Our cultures are inherently toxic
to the sensitivities
that are uniquely embodied in each of us as human beings.
Recognizing a young Jay with whom I'm familiar.
Now, there's a theory that, moving toward the intellect here,
there's a theory that some 20% of the humans and maybe even
animals and insects and fishes and plants
are significantly more sensitive.
That this is one of the peculiar distinctions
that is natural to populations of organisms.
And whether or not the theory is entirely true, it's useful to entertain it.
And some features of it match up with my own experience and observation,
not merely of humans but of living things, living beings in general.
And the discovery I made that was very surprising to me
was that over time, I developed the habit
of retreating from my heart and my
emotional core into intellectual behavior.
Philosophical behavior, abstraction.
And perhaps part of the reason
is that my developmental history has endowed me with skillfulness
in manipulating constructs.
What a shock.
And when I look back on my childhood and teenage years,
I notice not merely my own but even that of my family.
With its unique composition,
I notice a propensity
to avoid the murky, ambiguous, unprovable, non-courtroom-like
mass flowing waters of emotion and feeling and sensitivity.
By switching orientations,
by switching to argument, debate,
if I've got the word right, polemics.
And recently, after having a very emotional exchange,
with a family member
that was both nourishing and tragic,
I found myself in a later conversation,
being very intellectual.
And I felt nervous and unbalanced and kind of disembodied.
I felt ungrounded.
Perhaps my heart
is a bit like the gopher.
It emerges from the underground, from beneath all of the observable structure,
catches a brief and dangerous glimpse
of the world at its surface and then retreats,
covering up the exit doorway.
It used to catch that glimpse.
And we might suppose that in the
relatively cruel brightness of daylight,
the gopher is nearly blinded.
Its sensitivities were forged in darkness,
not the kind of darkness that represents evil or ignorance.
The kind of darkness that's something like space-time, origin,
the beneath from which living things and structure takes its character.
The truthfulness of living places
is trustworthy.
The pervasive structural overlays,
we inherit as participants in culture are not like this.
And they present
in the guise of mastery or authority,
a presentation familiar to us
from the institutions by which we're often dominated.
If not by which we're circumcised,
not merely sexually, but cognitively, relationally, behaviorally.
While promoting the idea that these institutions are the heroes
of human advancement and progress,
which, in point of fact, I never were,
I'm fond of the trope that perhaps I invented,
though I'm sure others have seen it, of the reverse Pinocchio gambit.
The methods and purposes
emergent from the institutional narrative
that turn actual human beings into constructs.
There is in some religions
the idea that it's possible to experience while yet alive a second birth,
in which we are introduced
to the personages that belong to the family of origin with a capital O.
And I have some affinity for this
analogy because I had the great good fortune
or the terrible misfortune or a combination of both
in having experienced something that very closely resembles this and was unimaginable to me prior.
But I think one of the things the religions are attempting to alert us to
is that
though we embody the potential to experience this rebirth,
or maybe even a series of them, not unlike the instars of a praying mantis,
we are also extremely vulnerable to something I'll refer to as the first death,
that being the circumcision of our essential human interiority, our spirit, our heart.
In preparation
to being rendered as a construct,
a kind of phony, skeletal, puppeteerable set of functions and fake identities.
That not only have nothing to do with our origins or our essences,
but explicitly contravene them, explicitly prohibit them,
make them impossible for us to imagine,
let alone pursue the active recovery of together.
And it doesn't surprise me that we're un-inclined,
particularly those of us who are not religious,
to
imagine the malignancy of such a project, because it overwhelms,
it's so overwhelming, that to even entertain it
terrifies the heart.
And in order to entertain it, we must also entertain our complicity in such projects,
wherever and however
they are active or emerging.
And so to the great detriment of all of us,
with very few and occasional exceptions,
we are born into
an interior space that's already pre-filled
with the produce
of language and constructs and institutions.
And since the space gets filled up very quickly as we absorb this from
our parents and peers and culture,
our souls become occluded and our hearts retreat.
And in their place arises things
we'd almost always reject,
had this bizarre state of affairs
not essentially pre-silenced us.
And there are those rare individuals or even families or small groups that
somehow manage to at least partly evade
this agenda,
thus retaining some seed of their
originary sensitivity and
intelligence, humanity, their essence.
And in general they are revered, but often they are executed.
And then we get records in text
about these people.
They come from every walk of life.
They exist in every age, group, and in every epoch.
And they struggle
to resuscitate and sustain.
That which the constructs deform
and transform into commodities and products, objects, more constructs.
We're about four months into the pandemic, if we presume it began sometime in early March.
And what's left of the intelligible structure
of our nation.
Demonstrates very directly
the penetration of the layered array of institutional and ideological and
philosophical and intellectual and financial fictions.
Demonstrates that we've been blinded by,
that we've been half willingly converted to expressions of.
