a being is what if you are both transformed to something you couldn't previously be
when you interact together, right? And the rainbow is kind of an analogy of this.
One is interacting with light, usually in some kind of mist, but there are other kinds of rainbows.
In fact, something not too many people are aware of is that if you look at the setting sun
through the branches of a tree, you are likely to notice an astonishing phenomenon
that I'll call a starburst, which is that the sun makes an astonishing
circuit like disk of little spikes of rainbow light that carousel and are alive and transform.
Is it there? Is it there without you? Is it there without the very place you stand on,
the precise distance we want to make measurements from the tree and the sun?
Is it there without an organism to participate? Is it intrinsic to space that it suddenly fills
with rainbows? No. Rainbows are a relationship. They're a relationship between, in the between,
right? Of a field of relationships, of infinite kinds and accessibility.
So, if someone suggests to me that the tree is not aware, I might be inclined to suggest that,
or to ask, do you think you might have any capacity to transform that?
What if something about the awareness of the tree depends, in some way, on your participation because
even if you decide trees cannot be aware, you're making a relational distance,
you're relating the trees, right? And you're deciding, no, this is illogical, the trees could have
or represent the opportunity for something transcendental to human minds, right? But how can
you exclude all of the capacities of your own humanity, most of which remain undiscovered and
unacknowledged and hidden in little crypts of intellectual assertions and logic over the years
when the birth of those things and their replacement of their progenitors was going on,
and that's a really recent replacement, that old stuff that got replaced.
You know, our interpretations of it look superstitious, they are backwards. They are backwards.
So, though I will admit it's my perspective that living beings have awareness of many different
kinds, and they have different layers of awareness, and they're differently aware in different
circumstances, just like we are. Whether I suspect, you know, that organisms and ecologies
aren't merely beings, they're something up tree, right? Up the category tree above being,
that we don't really have a word for, except gods or spirits, and those are so
valuable and I don't want them right now. So, it's my experience that this is so.
I'm not trying to convince others of it, though I might ask them to consider it,
because it really matters if it turns out that, for example, the ecologies, our own minds,
our extensions of them, and the damage that happens there happens to us. That would be a very
profound and seemingly, to me, an escapable consequence of our, you know, the common human
propensity to categorize, taxonomize and dismiss, you know, dissect, categorize, dissect,
taxonomize, dismiss. It's not the only thing that happens, it's just very, very common, though,
and lethally common in both in that it's deadly and it makes us forget.
The various kind of corresponding, sparkling strata of awareness in a living place is not
entirely unlike the starburst that emerges behind the tree at sunrise or sunset as if to
as if to celebrate
every time this ever happened in every being, in every being it ever happens to.
A reassurance that
the face of origin has returned from the ambiguity of night
and with its
particular spectra of light awakens our eyes to
distinction and color and shape, identity, whereas in the nighttime all of that's much fuzzier.
Intent transforms what's available to our awareness, the methods we use
to make cuts in the everything in our thought affect the choices, they delimit the choices
of intent we can embody, we can enact.
And when I see the tree part of my intent
is to forget the frameworks and habits
that I'm accustomed to and enter with humility and wonder and reverence and awe
and imagination and heartfulness into presence with the living being I'm with.
And seeing that being not just as an individual but as an instance of the place, the histories,
the corresponding layers of organismal awareness that together comprise a superposition far above
what's available to a single organism, an accessible superposition and that position lies
staggeringly beyond anything that will ever be available to language and intellect.
So for me
there's something better than space travel which I was just apeshit over the idea as a kid.
There's something far better than space travel, there's travel in the layers of awareness
and intelligence that exist all around us that we're totally ignoring in a race to get off world
in the hope that we'll find intelligence in the universe by which we mean behavior that
resembles our incredibly ignorant misbehavior with the intellect, right? They make categories out of
things and dissect them and can tell us what they do in their theoretical yeah good luck with that.
It's almost the opposite of intelligence and it's so
I strongly suspect that what we refer to as the intellect is a very very recent transformation
in human consciousness and that its progenitors were far more
diversely dimensionalized and vital and responsive to our hearts, right? To our intuition,
to our to our felt sense of being, you know, in a way that partly resembles children
but partly resembles wise people at the same time.
I mean if you have, for example,
an old trireme ship, right, and you can use it to explore the ocean
but you didn't really trust that it was a good ship because parts of it were more ambiguous than
others like the hull, right? The skeleton of the ship is what's really dependable, right? In fact,
the skeleton is what you depend on so that's the dependable thing. Great, well if you throw away
the rest of that ship, the skeleton is no longer dependable, right? You can be as confident as you
want about how incredibly well made that skeleton is. The moment you put it in the water of actual
relation with actual intelligences and beings, it fails. It just sinks.
And we've got a similar problem with intellect.
Now I was noticing earlier, you know, we bring intent with us whether we are
relating with or even beginning to observe phenomenon. Maybe observation and relation
or other are two terms for the same essential thing. Just tying my scarf here.
Ah, and this brings to mind the astonishing profundity to me of the analogy of which actual
seeing, looking is far above this analogy, not below it, not beneath it. It's not encompassed by it.
A feature that's often overlooked is pointed at by this analogy but the analogy that the gaze is
like a hand in light, right? So that that upon which the gaze, that over which the gaze travels
or upon which it comes to rest, along that gaze is communicated the intent of the one looking,
whether conscious or not. In the same way that to touch something, we touch it with a certain,
a certain array of qualities, right? Like I'm grabbing this knife to cut something or,
you know, I'm petting the pet or I'm lovingly making the food or I'm
frustratedly making food, right? Everything we touch with our hands,
somehow the spirit that moves before our bodies do, the essence that moves before our bodies do,
instruct whether we're gentle or playful or fierce or severe or, you know, crushing or what, yeah?
And this is particularly true when we touch each other, right? Certain kinds of touching
don't feel good. Other kinds feel nice at the right time.
So there's this old idea that our gaze is really like
the invisible hand of our essence or our souls. And so when we use our gaze, we,
I think, again, because we were told, no, no, seeing isn't touching things.
In fact, there's, it's not, you know, it's not, it's not a rational thought
that to see is to caress or to crave or to
adore or to despise or to
become fearful.
Yet those of us who see probably can sense
that all of these things are involved, whether or not they'd like to admit my analogy. And I'm
saying things are much more profound than that. I'm saying that's, that's a crude model of something
really astonishing that's actually going on that our representational systems cannot cope with,
which is part of why they don't represent it. Not only can it not be encompassed by language,
it's inconceivable in the paradigms we're trained to think in and to the ways we're trained to use
categories. We respond to observation.
A friend was last night explaining to me how the unspoken rules
of a social engagement at Tango, if I remember correctly called a tanda,
the rules require the unspoken ones that
the man doesn't verbally ask the woman to dance. It is done,
they, they select their dance partners with the eyes primarily, and there's a non-verbal
pre-dance of ambiguous possibility that occurs. But if a man were to actually walk up and say,
even very politely, would you care to dance, someone who understood the spirit of the tanda
would refuse, every time. And this is part of what I'm trying to illustrate, is that
when we look at older forms of tradition and relation and culture, we find evidence of all
these things that our very rational modern mind seeks to dismiss.
In fact, though we call it rational, we're likely to put some object above the, you know,
the dividing line and nothing but not below it or, you know, some incredibly
delimited skeleton of what otherwise might have been a, you know, a ratio worth being involved in.
So part of my point here is that observation transforms us dramatically and this is,
I want to, I want to talk mostly about the flip side of surveillance because I think we all know
that being, being observed changes our, our way of being in our bodies, in our awareness,
the motivations that they're from emerge, our habits.
And on the one hand, we want, you know, we want two wings on this bird. We want
to be observed in those expressions of ourselves that we want to observe, you know,
that we want, that we intend, that face out toward observers in particular, like mom and dad,
if I'm a kid or an audience, if I'm a comedian, right? We certainly want the,
the comedian wants to be observed, right? The child's mommy, mommy, look at me, look at me,
wants to be observed. And this is an incredibly sophisticated topic, which I'm just going to
say a few modest things about today. Then there's the other thing of we really don't want to be
observed in our privacy. And we don't want to be surveilled, particularly in situations that make
us vulnerable to execution or impoverishment at the whim of some surveyor. We don't want to be
the research subjects in a lab whose intent is malignant. And we don't want to be observed in any
lab that we didn't actually will it completely willingly with not, you know, with awareness
sign up for. And maybe we would sign up for very few if we weren't being paid somehow,
or being, you know, having some, some seeming benefit transferred to us.
But we are animals that are profoundly sensitive to observation,
such that it can radically transform who we are, what we do, how we think, our relationships
with our intellect or our hearts, our motivations, our intentions, dramatically and instantaneously.
And it's possible to observe so lovingly, so
with such inspiration and enthusiasm and wonder and joy, that those beings upon whom our gaze
falls, so to speak, whom it the beings whom our gaze touches
light up, right? This is one of the capacities of
intent and observation and the gaze, though it's hard to formally have that intent
and execute it. It's not an executable. It's not an algorithm. It's not a code.
It's an emotion. It is the movement of the
the heartfully sensitive aspects of ourselves.
It's not a rule. And if made a rule, it dies in the same way that
the man formally asking the woman to dance fails every time.
It's the wrong form. And it's too concrete.
And it too completely delineates the roles.
Even if, in fact, in visual exchanges, it may be common for the man to propose the dance.
I don't know.
I was placing my hand on a tree and someone was passing me and I was aware she was observing me.
I believe that she was an older Japanese woman.
My felt sense of her proximity transformed what was happening between me and the tree.
I felt a surge of intensity and reverence that on my own, I'm not sure I would have experienced.
And I don't know whether this is because I was imagining something in my mind,
which is entirely possible. And indeed, there was some aspect of my imagination that was
engaged and aware. And perhaps I was being gazed upon. I don't know. I can't tell you the statistics
on this one. I just know that as that woman passed me, I felt this beautiful surge of
enthusiasm and reverence and my heart sort of awoke and got in on the conversation.
And I was responding to being observed.
There are some things we won't do generally, some things we might otherwise do that we won't do
if we're aware that we're being observed. But there's a flip side to surveillance,
which is positive surveillance. Being seen by those whose attention inspires or transforms us
calls us to a higher, a better, a more diverse and beneficial
way of being in the moment. And here, in our cultures, we're trained to use negative observation
very adeptly, but the real powerful thing is positive surveillance. To have the attention
and concern and awareness of beings that we love, people that we love and want to be seen
and known by. And I gotta tell you, to have the positive surveillance of nature
is a grace you don't want to pass through human life without experiencing,
because you won't know what it means to be human if you don't have this experience.
And maybe I'm making a really severe recommendation here, but it's truly
heartfelt. It's not intellectual. If you don't know what it's like to have a living place
look kindly on you, wow, it's like a fish that's never been wet. I mean, that somehow was kept
alive in some bizarre laboratory of intellect, right? You want to, trust me, if you think things
you enjoy are good, you should understand the origin of goodness and it's not in things.
It's in positive relational surveillance of other beings living places and in play with them and in
in relation with them and adventuring together and being one body together, knowing that
you can sense that this place knows me and loves me and as I love it and that, you know,
I am its human body and it is my organismal body and this kind of thing. This is some really
wonderful stuff that's part of why people are really interested in intoxicants is because
they hope to have some taste of that. Unfortunately, I think intoxicants
with some few exceptions are more inclined to interfere and to put a frame there that you
might be better off not having, you know, not having intrude.
Now again, I'm really just introducing this topic. I think I have another video or two
about it but and I'm not really that interested in the whole quantum physics argument about
even though, you know, I could use it as an analogy about the intent being like, you know,
mechanical observation in quantum physics that transforms and collapses the cloud.
It's a really useful and interesting analogy and I'm not dismissing it. I just don't want to
reinforce it because then we'll have a frame, right? Yet, the analogy has important features.
There's the living places and the living beings. They are fields of potential just as we are and
as we come together, those fields of potential start to disambiguate in the way in a way that
I'm reminded of by the request of the glance in the tundra, right?
And when we look directly at something,
if our gaze is like touching with our spirit, looking very directly at a thing
that could be seen as intrusive or insensitive, right? An approach from the side is often useful
