Hey everybody.
I'm here at the pond where I, in other times, have practiced frog sneaking, which is the
art of very slowly approaching a frog here, sunning itself on the shore.
And this year there may not be as many or maybe even any frogs since the pond is artificial,
meaning that there's a tarp underneath it.
But it's a very old pond.
I've known it for at least 20 years.
And I've watched it change and grow.
I've observed it, but I've also participated.
This tree here is a being, in my view, I'll wander around why that might be in a minute.
This tree has embodied the time of this place, the living, the lived time of this place.
It's not a recording device.
It's something far better.
Because although it is the embodiment of all of that lived time, and I don't mean
hours or days, though we can think in these terms, I mean something at once more ordinary
and transcendental to how we think about time, usually how we are, you know, scripted
to think about time.
No, it's not a record.
It's the embodiment of lived presence in the local field of relationships.
From before the moment it sprouted, all the way back through its lineage to the beginning
of life on earth, to this tree here now, which the word tree is meaningless, it's just a
token that points toward a category and an instance of a category and so on, if we're
in our intellect.
The tree transcends the intervals we're used to.
It's not seconds or minutes or hours or days or months.
But it is the embodiment, not of intervals, but of presence, living awareness and relation
with all of the beings, not just nearby, but all of their histories, and in some sense
one can imagine it as the local instancing of tree-ness, not just its species here in
this place at this time, but it's one of the local embodiments of all that trees are and
become, all of their relations, their history.
And what I experience of the tree depends on many choices that I make, even though for
most of us we don't have a lot of choices here a lot of the time.
But my capacity for relating with the tree is either limited or assisted by my intention
and my perspective, what I'm looking for, what I'm looking at, why I'm engaged at all.
My hope today is to talk a bit about observation, time and intent, not necessarily in that order.
Now the question of whether the tree is a being or not has a strange, like most people will
agree that it belongs to the class of discriminables we call organisms, and we would think of
it as vegetation. And so we would associate qualities that we've learned to recognize
about organisms in general and about vegetation. Most of us would intuitively just apply those
layers before we approach the tree in our awareness.
And I've suggested before that when we make those usually invisible to us choices, we are not so much
granting our minds wings as we are selecting.
You can go through if you want, yeah.
Yeah. We are selecting
templates, habitual and familiar,
that will limit more often than expand our,
the opportunities we will be available to in terms of participation relating with.
We do this with each other, we do it with ideas, we do it with commodities,
but we especially do it with living places and beings.
So that we are inclined to dismiss the most of the relational manifold presented
excessively by living beings and places. And part of this is because we have acquired knowledge.
Knowledge gets in the way. Where it doesn't, where it doesn't not get in the way, it's in the way.
Let me put it that way. So
when we approach, for example, a tree, and if you ask many people,
do you think the tree is a being with something analogous or maybe beyond
what you call awareness, which doesn't necessarily mean that it's aware that it's
an it or they're aware that they're a they.
We don't know exactly what it might mean unless we can contact the awareness of the tree
with our awareness. And there are people who are inclined to suspect that
a sort of, how shall I put this? They believe an anachronism, a myth,
that is implied by our relationships with the categories. So that, for example,
plants aren't available to your intentional, to an intentional, mutually intentional exchange
of awareness. And they might think this, for example, because they think plants don't have brains.
Trees don't have brains. So since they don't have brains,
there's nothing really there for you to relate with other than it's beautiful or it's alive.
Not everyone thinks this way.
But the problem with approaching things from the categories we're trained to use
is not only that they're incomplete, they're cripplingly incomplete.
If we believe the myth that living beings don't have awareness,
or if we say, well, they have something analogous, but it's much less.
We're making a mistake that's not so much about whether trees are beings that we can
have a relationship with or not. It's more about sort of making slices in our own opportunity
pie, pulling out tiny slivers and throwing the rest away. Here's why.
If I ask whether the tree can be my friend or someone I can relate with,
it's a peculiar kind of question because it presupposes that there's a state
of being the tree that is already there or not there,
regardless of what we think. And our categories, our relationship with categories,
informs or deforms or amputates aspects of possibility so that we can conveniently get on
with that stuff we're doing all the time, which most of the time is finding a way to
skip over relational possibilities and get on to the thing that actually matters, getting the money,
getting the job, doing the task, thinking the thinking.
So the intellect can be deceptive, and it's often deceptive. And we have other
relationships within the broad continuum of our accessible humanity.
There are many assets implicit in our humanity with which we can approach
relationships with living places and beings.
And these are so explosively, the potential of these relationships is so explosively different
and transcendental to what we do with words and categories and concepts and theories,
that if we were to take the latter collection of stuff, behaviors and so on,
compared to what we're,
compared to what I encompass when I talk about the living beings and the places and such,
that little dust spec is microscopic in scope and ability,
in embodied potential for transcendental insight and for the fulfillment of our humanity and
you could throw away intellect and our humanity, what would rush into the vacuum
that it often asserts and creates. And I have to use it against itself in my talk at the moment,
which is ironic, but I'm beautiful, I'm paradoxical, and maybe paradox is important here.
Yes, compared to this little derivation moat the humans have done with their language and
intellect and categories and such, what we are participating in as organs of nature,
it's like comparing, I don't know, a galaxy to a microscopic mode of sand.
And yet the intellect easily presents as authoritative.
It knows what things are and what they do. So back to this question about trees
and whether we can, our awareness, whether our consciousness can have a meaningful relationship
with the being and the network of beings and the lineage of beings that we could understand some
tree, not to represent, to embody. Now, in my view, this isn't a question.
I'm asking what appears to be a question
because I respect the confusion of people who having no such experience of trees
and having received the same scripting I did about what they aren't and that a single creature is a
single creature, an individual, and so on and so forth, and that trees don't have minds so they
can't have anything like awareness or consciousness. That presumes that humans have knowledge they've
never come near intellectually and it's simply wrong. It's blatantly wrong. However, I'll probably
have to give some analogies or examples to help show how it's wrong or why, part of why it must be
wrong. The first problem is that we have complete knowledge of organisms. We have not even one
percent of knowledge about organisms. We know tiny little things that we've teased apart with
intellect and research. Compared to organisms themselves, those things are very nearly useless
unless you intend to turn organisms into commodities or hitchhike on their
beyond all beyonds advanced embodiments of intelligence in relationships
and intelligence in relationships with time, with observation, like the flowers.
Intent is a little trickier because intent is something
it's a quality I'm not ready to collapse into my discussion about organisms, plants, trees,
insects, animals, sea creatures, microorganisms. So we have some frameworks that are cultural
and if we came from cultures that lived in relation with living beings in nature,
we would have different frameworks and in fact the frameworks would be fuzzier.
There'd be some play in there, some ambiguity because there is always and what it gets taken up
by for most of us is the framework. Trees are essentially growing things. You cut them up into
lumber, blah blah blah. But there's a particular concern I have that I want to highlight which is
that some aspects of relation are not intrinsic. The fact that you are there and a tree is there
does not mean you're going to be likely to sense immediately the opportunity to have
an exchange, a relational transfer with a tree or a plant.
Particularly if you're in your intellect, but it's much easier if you're in your heart.
And the question isn't really can one have a relationship or a relational exchange, an ongoing
continuum of exchanges where both beings are honoring each other and maybe loving one another
and relating with one another. Sounds superficially ridiculous about trees,
but it's because of the imposition of the categories and what they evict from
not our opportunity, but what we think. In other words, they change our intent.
They delimit our intent so that most of us, many of us, probably don't believe it's useful to talk
to trees whether that's done with our heart, like with our imagination, or with our mouths in human
language. And we generally are trained to believe that communications happen in language.
Another catastrophic deception. Something, you know, a collapse of the many possibilities
of communication, a sort of artifact like skeletal thing happens with language over time.
Language temporalizes experience because it gives it a sort of heartbeat of signals
emitted and received and forged and interpreted and so on. But there are older ways of communication
that are faster and better and deeper and richer than speaking or writing.
So I'm going to crib from a little bit here from the book, Saving the Appearances, because
it presents one of the best analogies that's relevant to what I'm orbiting.
And it's not like that's the first book to present this analogy.
But some of the opportunities inherent in our humanity are not presented directly to the intellect.
In fact, they may make their first appearance in our nervous system, presuming we consider these
distinct, and I know we don't have to, or our hearts. And I'm not intending to imply the dualism
that language seems to impose here, or the, you know, the trialism or the quadrilism.
Um, they aren't different things, so much as they are different faculties, they are distinguishable
faculties. And if I approach a relational situation with the intent to gain a profit
in the sense of make money, I may want to just tear it down and sell the parts and,
you know, harvest, quote unquote, harvest the vegetation or hunt the animals.
And so if I approach with the intent to discover
whether and in what ways
I can have meaningful relations with living places and living beings,
one of the first things that happens is I move from the position of, you know,
um, plausible superiority to humility, right? I go from, I make, I get smaller,
and I take off those frameworks that claim that humans know what stuff is and what's
going on and what its qualities are and what its behaviors mean and so on and so forth.
I take all that, I try to take as much of that off as possible.
It can be challenging. But the reason that I'm, that I'm telling the story, which I forgot to
complete my sentence back there, was that I have compassion and concern for people who are interested,
but it doesn't make sense to them. Um, I was out with some really bright coders
that my friend Josh introduced me to some time ago for dinner. And we'd been walking around
the gardens and I'd been talking a bit about trees. And one of them turned to me entirely,
sincerely, and said, how do you relate with a tree?
So in part, I'm responding to that because first of all, I didn't see, I didn't judge,
if I judged what his, you know, his question, I judged it sincere and entirely reasonable.
And I think this is an entirely reasonable question. And in case I'm, in case I'm presenting
the appearance that I'm a great tree communicator or something like that, please don't take that
uh, as my intent, because it's not, nor is it true.
What I have is humility and the awareness that I've had these questions for 40 years
or longer. What are the trees really? What are the insects really? What do they know themselves as?
Not in the sense of knowledge, but in the sense of embodied participation
in the unimaginable splendor
of organismal symbiotic union.
Something like this. So I feel really humble and I don't have answers.
What I am aware of are the limitations we ordinarily operate under
and how invisibly prohibitive and impoverishing they are. That's what I'm aware of.
I know, I know a little bit about that, right? And perhaps something too about trees, you'll
have to ask them because I am not the arbiter. It's something between me and the trees, but not
just the trees, you know, I'm using them as an example. So first of all, I think the question is
entirely honest and reasonable and so I'm trying to respond to it a little today.
And I did give him some modest answers. I said, you know, come to the tree with your heart,
you know, pay attention, stay with it for a while. Its time is different from yours.
Bring maybe an offering of some kind, some water, some earth. Something that,
you know, the tree might recognize as a gift in its own non-human, non-representational way.
Now back to my analogy from saving the appearances. The author of that book
talks about the rainbow and asks, you know, is the rainbow there?
And the faculties and opportunities that we bring to human birth
have a lot to do with questions like this. They don't have to do in the way our intellectual
traditions imply so much with, you know, what can we reliably distinguish
about some phenomenon that we've divided from all other things and categorized and so on
and dissected and whatever. What can we surmise about that that fits in with knowledge in our
categories and logic and so on and so forth? This habit while useful, where it's useful,
is a disaster everywhere it's not. And one of those places is in relationships.
Research doesn't tell you what relationships are about.
In fact, research is an intent that changes observation and participation in ways that we
should be very, we should keep clearly in our awareness so that we know when not to use them.
So one of the questions or answer, you know, one of the, one of my responses to is the tree,
