and one of the things that's nice about humility when it's true is it helps ensure that my gaze
is one of reverence and offering and is plaintive and is respectful.
Now, these may seem very subtle things and perhaps in our modern environment, they are.
But they must, there is crucial to me that we recover
the faculties and relationships that are ejected into the void
of intellect and statements and concrete disambiguation and naming and all of this.
Hmm.
Which isn't to say those things are only bad again,
where they overwhelm and deprive us of opportunity, that's too intrusive.
Maybe it's in the wrong context, right? Intellect has appropriate contexts
for its intelligent application.
And intellect is capable of forming
sort of returning dimensionality that would otherwise be dismissed to thought and conception.
So, these are a few of the things that were on my mind, but I've not yet spoken of time much.
And so, what I'm going to do is just say a few things.
Each of the organisms and the organisms that compose the organisms, their cells,
these are layers of living temporality.
And they're so profound and so staggering because each organism is at once
individual-like, while at the same time always being an organ in this multi-layered,
astonishing manifold of life and being and awareness.
So, they're both, they're not, they're never completely individual and you can't make them
that way even in a lab. You can separate one cell from all other things and look at it.
And that's a really weird thing to do because in nature that doesn't really happen and I'm
not sure the walls of the laboratory and the walls of the enclosure actually successfully
accomplish concrete distinction of a cell because there's all these layers that aren't merely space
in which the cell participates and of which the cell is an instance of.
So, the thing about time is that it's relational. You have to have at least two things in relation
to have time at all. And if those things are beings, the kind of time you get is completely
different than if they're objects. Oh, wow, a condor. So, there are trillions and trillions
and uncountable trillions of organisms on Earth alive right at this moment.
And each one of them is a local experiencer of time and producer of time in relation with other
beings. So, time is some amazing. Time is a many-splendored thing that our models of it
flatten and crush down to, well, metrics. But time is, by splendid, I mean,
diversely embodied, expressed, experienced, enriched in the between of all beings.
And I noticed today something surprising. I'm a fan of Alfred Korshepski and he refers to,
in his work, he talks about how one of the things that differentiates us
from other organisms is that we are time binders. But I think what he means is that we bind time
cognitively, conceptually, linguistically in formal representational cognition. And what he
means by that is we transfer the history of what we've done so far to our children
in a layer that isn't merely, that's like supra embodied, the layer of thinking and minds and
stuff, right? So, he says that we bind time in this way. I'd probably have picked a better
phrase, but I understand what he means. We undergo in language and in culture and childhood.
And thus, assets, well, we hope they're assets. In many cases, they're deficits
that were previously established in our language and conceptual context and time, culture,
so on. These are transferred and we undergo uptake and are thus transformed by them.
And I think that's reasonable. It's not a bad model. It seems to match pretty well what happens
for most of us, though it happens uniquely for each one of us. And one of the things that often
isn't discussed here is the difference between declaration and connotation, right? The associations
that a concept or a word or a phrase has for us as a unique individual,
as well as those that it commonly has in generalized populations.
But that's not really important. What I noticed and what I was very surprised by was
that we're time skippers. We keep inventing new ways to skip over what would have otherwise
involved relational investment, presence, care, concern, awareness. Our species has this
fascinated addiction to finding new ways to skip over the space in which relation would otherwise
occur. And we call these technologies, right? If you have to walk through a landscape, you're
going to have one kind of, you know, you're going to have a very relatively intimate relationship
if you're not just distracted with that landscape and all, you know, and the continuum between the
beginning and end of your journey. If instead you're on a horse, you're going to have a different,
very different, because now you've included another organism with you and its senses and
yours start to get mixed together and something very interesting is going on there.
But you can go faster than you can on foot. You can get across the gap quicker. And if you
use a bicycle, you can get across the gap quicker if you use a motorcycle quicker, a car quicker,
a jet very quick. And in fact, when we do this with a jet, we usually experience this kind of
illness that we call jet lag, but actually it's us having skipped time, right? We went into a
relational superposition over time and distance and we traveled between two places faster than any
organism ever did in the history of the world, most likely. And so part of what's happening
is just temporal displacement, right? The temporalities in which we're enmeshed in a given
place, like my apartment or this park, are very unique to that place. And if suddenly I not only
leave them, but I go into a position where they're no longer very relevant or present,
and then I travel over a great distance very quickly and then I land, right? I've skipped over
the interval. And this strange desire has intruded into every aspect of our lives
so that instead of having adventures, we watch shows. We observe people who planned
for us to observe them enacting things which are not real for them.
That's some pretty interesting diagnostic material there. But yeah, I noticed and was
surprised that it's not just that we're time binders, we want to skip over the interval.
And all of our technology is what the things we call conveniences. These are primarily
methods of skipping, relating with things, mindfully, presently, heartfully, with awareness,
with meaningful,
with meaningful purpose of intelligence and care. And one of the things that happens as we
keep skipping over these intervals, and introducing new ways to skip and new kinds
of skipping and new distances to cross, which we've done very adeptly while pretending we're
connecting stuff and people, is that the pace of intrusive, non-relational time skipping
seductions keeps increasing. And along with that, there's a whole array of noise,
electromagnetic, audible, relational. And in the absence of the relations that we otherwise
would have pursued and embodied and experienced, something very malignant is seething, in my view.
So we aren't just time binders, we're time skippers. And the more different aspects of our
life we are encouraged to skip over for convenience, the more we become profoundly attached in a
weirdly superficial way. I know it sounds oxymoronic, but I did mention that paradox might be important
here. We get profoundly attached in a very superficial way to representations,
because they represent the time we were absent from. And those can be objects like newspapers or
printouts or books or even garbage, right? Because not having lived in the time, we may cling to the
the the artifacted remains of our failure to do so as if it held the promise of returning that
time to us, which it doesn't. But this may be an aspect of why each of us variously hoards certain
kinds of things unless we don't. When I walk here in the garden, I return to something
resembling living temporality unless I'm making a recording.
Even then I'm still in the field of it, right? It's nearby and I'm sensitive a little bit.
But it's when I walk without my device that I'm actually, I've got a shot at being present.
Observation, intent, time.
The transformations possible under the
encouraging gaze of the positive observation of a living place where people we love or
hope to have meaningful relationships with.
Thanks for joining me.
Hmm
