And a few encounters with other factions that were relatively problematical.
But the whole time I lived on the street, no one ever did me any serious physical harm.
I was never punched or raped or, you know, really, I was never, never really mistreated
much at all. Though a lot of my friends died or disappeared or became heroin addicts or,
you know. I was able to rejoin society. It's a very unusual thing for a kid who goes through
something like that. So, you know, in that darkness there were lights. Some of them are still with
me in my heart. But sometimes our darkness is so overwhelming that we can't sense anything good
or any hope at all. And we just, we feel despair and hopelessness and helplessness.
And we cry out for help and nothing comes. No one comes.
We cry out for healing and we don't heal. We get worse. Things get worse.
It's very difficult
in these moments to be human.
Life becomes nightmare-like. And we can't wake up because there's no place to go. There's no
answer. There's no solution. There's no savior.
So what then? What then?
What about when there is no bright star shining in the darkness? What about
when the darkness overwhelms and consumes us? What about when we just keep falling
and nothing slows our descent? And we know at the bottom there are the rocks and we will be
crushed, destroyed. What about this? Yeah. What about this?
In these situations,
if we are experiencing them directly personally, there is no sage wisdom
that will break through the darkness to help us.
Short of some kind of miraculous rescue,
all that we are and have been will be lost.
Perhaps destroyed, consumed, obliterated.
I remember
one day I came here
and I was making a video.
And there's a big blue barrel, blue plastic barrel,
was standing in that nursery place that I was filming earlier.
And I had my microphone on and I wasn't sure if it was capturing the sound properly. So
I went to one of the little tables in there
and set my equipment down for a moment while continuing to film the video.
And the big blue barrel was standing next to me, blue plastic barrel.
And I noticed there was a beautiful hawk feather behind the barrel
and I thought I might take it with me when I finished adjusting my gear. So I took the
microphone out and continued making the video. And then I decided to look inside the barrel.
And inside the barrel,
which was about a third full of water, so maybe a foot and a half, two feet of water in the barrel.
In the water was the corpse of a hawk.
That barrel used to be over here. It's probably been taken somewhere else now.
I came over here to see if I could find it.
The hawk was a fledgling and the fledgling hawks
have their nervous systems not being fully developed. There's a conflict between two different
possibilities of what they can do with their bodies. So essentially they first become very good
at grasping and then in order to fly they have to let go. This is a beautiful analogy.
They can't grasp and fly obviously, right? So if you're grasping a branch, you can flap your wings
all you want. It won't help you. You have to let go. So in their early developmental phases,
these two behaviors or activities conflict in their nervous system so that
they cannot both grasp and try to fly. And this is a problem when they first capture prey because
they have to grasp the prey and fly into, you know, lift it up, fly away with it to take it to a
place where it can be safely consumed. So this Cooper's hawk, it flew up to the edge of that barrel
which was too thin for it to get a grip on at all. There's no, there's not really any surface
like that in nature. The circular, very thin plastic surface of the top of the barrel.
So the hawk could not grip that surface and while trying to grip it, it could not fly,
it fell into the barrel, was trapped there and drowned. No one came to save it. Nothing could
help that hawk. It was destroyed by the ignorance of humans and the way they make bizarre situations
that otherwise could never exist in nature. So the hawk had no way to negotiate with that
situation and it was killed by it. The average human would not look at a tall blue bucket about
the size of a garbage can, maybe a bit taller though, another foot taller and think that a hawk
could die in there and in fact it took me a long time to figure out how that had taken place. It
was a mystery when I first encountered it. A terrible tragedy. It broke my heart. I couldn't
save the hawk but you see this tragedy is part of the constellation of my own soul.
I could not save the hawk but I did remove it from the barrel simply because I knew that its last
desire was just to get back to the sky, to be out of this terrible, nonsensical trap
and I relate with that hawk in my own way because in many ways my home and this place
have been much like that. A terrible trap that I cannot escape and rather than killing me outright
it just eats me slowly, agonizingly. I tried for so many years to get out of this trap and could
not make it. Now perhaps it is too late. It certainly seems that it is.
But I will continue to try to learn and grow and help others and
to try to fulfill some of the promise of my human incarnation. In my day-to-day life however
limited or simple it may be.
And some, there are still some beautiful moments even if the overall chapter is quite grim or
dire. But yes when things are truly dark sometimes there's nothing to be done.
And perhaps you know some of us will fight in these times. Some of us will struggle in our
bondage whatever is binding us and others we will surrender. And you know we will not rage
against the dying of the light. We will drift away into the darkness.
Each according to their nature, their spirit, their history, their life path.
I like to think that there's always hope and there's always it's always possible to make
a beautiful choice even in a very grim situation.
And it's a beautiful thought but it's not always true.
And sometimes it may be required or appropriate
that we ourselves become vicious
and return injury for injury.
Rather than accepting damage from others.
Oh this is so weird.
Without responding violently.
These are the white raspberries.
And they are good.
And they are really good.
They are much sweeter than regular raspberries and less tart.
And it's funny how they have a flavor
that is generally consistent berry to berry.
But each one of them is unique. More than a little bit unique.
I've always been a pretty gentle person.
It's very difficult to make me angry.
Usually someone has to do something extremely egregious or my video got interrupted.
What I was saying was it's ordinarily very difficult to make me angry.
Someone has to do something extremely egregious or be hurting me or threatening me for a long
long time before I become angry. And even then I'm not violent. I might yell and make noises
very uncommon that I you know have anything to do with any kind of violence.
By very uncommon I mean like almost never nearly never never in my adult life.
But there are situations that could catalyze those feelings or that kind of behavior.
I would certainly act to defend someone that I loved.
But usually it's easier to step down conflict than to engage it with violence.
At least it always has been in my life. I think many people find that idea ridiculous.
Especially if they've been in many fights and I know
some people who have and some some people who are close to me that have.
But yeah that's not really my style. But there are situations where
I've just been being violated over and over and over again year after year after year.
As in the situation with my roommate for example.
Where the pain and the degree and the threat is serious enough that
I become very angry at least.
Yet still we live in a lawful society.
For better and worse.
It's natural to be angry.
And when we've been violated to protect ourselves.
In whatever ways are available to us.
But even this will not repulse the great darkness of death and destruction.
That comes to every life at some point.
And sometimes it comes rather gently and sometimes it comes very abruptly and sometimes it comes very violently.
So I guess in a way I'm reflecting today on the nature of
the struggles in our lives that we cannot overcome.
That wisdom will not shed light on.
That cannot be changed from destruction to rebirth.
I have one friend close friend who's suffering very profoundly at the moment.
With a life situation that cannot be resolved.
And sometimes he becomes angry at me when I talk with him about
the possibilities for
improving his day to day experience of life.
Rather than allowing it to be destroyed by both his situation and his concerns about it.
And sometimes he becomes angry with me.
And also he thinks from outside my life that I must not be very good at
these things or I would not be suffering as I do.
This is not true.
And it's not merely a matter of skillfulness or application.
But we each come to great difficulty in our own way.
And once encompassed by it we will each respond in the ways first at least that are familiar to us.
Probably we're unlikely to respond in ways that are unfamiliar to us.
So you know if you're a fighter you respond with fight.
But lots of dire situations you can't fight them.
There's no way to punch cancer or you know I mean you can be treated for cancer but
there's you know you can't you can't punch a catastrophic head injury or
you know the onset of severe depression or you know bulimia or anorexia or
a bipolar disorder you can't fight fighting it won't help you.
There are some things that fighting will help
and there are some things that practices can help but
in the jaws of destruction
we can talk about surrender or you know resistance.
But every time those jaws close we are crushed.
I guess it's a personal choice whether to resist or succumb.
And of course those are not the only two options but those are the primary polarities.
So this is an unfinished meditation on these matters and
it's a personal one because in this time I am suffering.
And I've had plenty of suffering before but the suffering I have now is not the same kind.
It's it's nearly all-encompassing and I'm in a trap maybe a series of traps
that I can't find my way out of so
I'm not sure how the story will continue to unfold perhaps future chapters
may bring some light or further darkness or bits of both let's see.
But I'm also aware of
the great unbridled suffering
of millions of people around the world some of them my friends
who are in agony I've lost parents, family, their homes, their jobs,
their futures are unknown it's a terrifying time in the world.
Our societies to say they are breaking down would be an understatement
they're becoming actively malignant.
And this whether or not people are conscious of it they are aware of it
and it's a source of despair and conflict and confusion helplessness hopelessness
anger frustration
addiction loss pain suffering.
And I feel compassion for the suffering of the living places the ecologies the remain the
remains of our anciently conserved ecologies the oceans the remaining forests and wetlands
rivers streams deserts mountains it's a grim time.
If I take comfort at all it's in a few things one is that darker it gets
the more profound unactive kindness becomes
and it's in the scope of its effect and in the brightness that it brings to lives
even a small act of kindness this gives me hope
and even though I am suffering and confused and feel despair
I still adore the living world and the beings all the living beings
so there will be a little time yet for love and celebration remembrance
renewal rejuvenation
this
this I remember today on the first day of this new moon cycle
in the 8th of September 2021
so thank you for joining me these are my thoughts for the moment
I look forward to walking and learning together again very soon may your life be blessed and safe
when you need help may you find it readily available
in the living world in the human world
may those you love be safe may your dreams be deep and rich
may we grow and learn together once more very soon.
bye-bye
