Now, text has its uses, but this isn't one of them. It's not a good one.
And certainly there are people who can, you know, sort of adjust to the modern situation.
But it's also crippling because we need to have the experience of improvising together and learning to express our thoughts and feelings, not only in words, but in music, the music of our voices, the music we make when we're together.
And so this seems to me something we can learn a lot from observing.
It's a kind of science fictiony experiment gone haywire.
And I don't want to project it too far into the future because it looks like we're going to lose a bunch of faculties that are really important to our capacities for communication.
And surely it would be, you know, wonderful to be able to touch one another and see one another in real time in the same space.
And we hopefully will all have some experience of that, but this problem with interpreting the gap, you know, we were texting back and forth for the past 10 minutes, very regularly, and then suddenly one party goes silent.
We don't know what that means.
And we're inclined to interpret it with our fears and insecurities, right?
We're inclined to interpret it with feelings that can be triggered by nothing more than the interruption of a flow of text.
And it was very uncommon to have that problem with speaking, and when we did, we knew there was some trouble, right?
If we're speaking with someone and suddenly they just stop talking and look at us, you know, this is a call for us to pay closer attention and to realize, hey, we lost the contact even though we're in the same room, right?
Can you tell that we're, we've lost the contact and are you paying attention or are you just blathering on with face noises?
Now this is a really deep topic.
Of course, most topics are deep if we go deep with them.
But I want to encourage you to be very careful with these technologies.
In contexts that are counterfeited and compromised and filled with surveillance and analysis, our ordinary human cognition warps against itself.
And it warps against absences we might interpret as meaning something that they never did except in our interpretation.
As somebody who's very carefully watched the development of electronic technologies,
I mean, there were problems with this, with the telephone too.
Long, long ago, before there were computers, there were, there were troubles with telephones like this.
And before that, perhaps with letters, right?
Why have they not sent me a letter?
We used to send a letter every week.
This week, no letter came.
Back then, you couldn't just call to find out what was wrong.
Although if the person was near you, you might travel to them to find out what's going on.
And I feel great compassion for people born in the past 20 or 30 years.
Because they're being born into a context they don't know the history of.
They're being born into a context where communicating by text seems to them normal or even safer than having a conversation together.
And that won't work.
That can ruin minds.
There will be some exceptions.
It doesn't only rack us.
There are some useful features of the capacity to text someone you're in a relationship with.
But most of those features are pragmatic and, you know, different from the goal of deep communication, right?
They're like, could you pick up something at the store?
That's not a bad use for text.
I'm going to be out doing my laundry for a while, but when I get back, let's talk.
No problem there.
But when people are texting intensely, they're inclined to just form wild fantasies
that may have little or nothing to do with what's actually going on between them.
And part of that is because the musical aspect is missing.
But another part is because in many cases, the entire relationship has taken place primarily in text and sending each other photographs.
To someone of my generation, that's not merely unthinkable.
It sounds like bad science fiction, right?
Like dystopia.
So this is something that deeply concerns me, and we can transform it together.
But in the current context, that's not really on the agenda.
For now, things continue to collapse in this direction.
And for people who are unusually minded or who have unique ways of thinking,
these situations present terrifying traps and real lethal danger.
You know, anyone inclined to overthinking, and most of us are inclined toward that when we're isolated,
and I use the term very generally,
is going to have catastrophic trouble with the texting and frequency and rhythm
in relationships that aren't embodied together in real time.
Whether it's, you know, with a voice conversation or time spent with one another in physical presence.
And of course, there's been a lot less of that lately.
So I must imagine that the prevalence of this problem and the problems that surround it
has probably exploded over the past 12 months.
But the idea that two adults, two, you know, people in their late 30s,
would pursue a romantic relationship primarily in text exchanges seems to me bizarre,
especially if there's deep, you know, feelings and hopes, passions and concerns.
So yeah, this interpreting the pause problem.
You know, when I finally reconnected with my gaming group,
they said, well, we were as confused as you. We didn't know why you weren't with us.
We, you know, the other guy wouldn't tell us why he was upset, so we couldn't communicate that to you.
And this went on for like a couple of weeks and was quite confusing.
We were both on both sides. Everyone's trying to interpret the absence, you know,
and it's funny that a lot of our modern media is really about reifying the absence of our actual communality.
Our actual mutual concern, engagement, relation, development.
That stuff's mostly missing.
So what happens is that the absence gets reified and suddenly we are supposed to be surprised that plants are cooperating with each other.
Even the idea of cooperation is a bit wonky here because what's really going on is something really much deeper.
It is that they are organs of each other's bodies and on earth that's pretty much what's going on.
Most of life is profoundly symbiotic with the exception of the humans by and large, their collectives,
which are abiotic, right, their anti-life.
They kill vast ecologies every day, all day long.
And their only thought is how many fish can we get in the freezer to ship back and can and package and put numbers in machines?
Well, fortunately, that agenda is going to be deeply and profoundly disrupted as the capacity, the carrying capacity of the earth
undergoes catastrophic transformations in the wake of the past perhaps 100 or 200 years of human behavior.
Not that we didn't have an effect before, but we were only once we were able to mechanize that effect could we radically,
geometrically increase the damage per day, per minute.
And even if the numbers don't go up, the impact increases geometrically over time, or at least in a nonlinear way.
Now, it's relatively natural for us to interpret gaps.
When something's always there and suddenly it's not something we rely upon or love or gives us comfort, then we may have questions about why.
But in the context of email and texting, there's many really deep and bizarre problems that arise unnecessarily,
simply because we were expecting a rhythm to continue and suddenly it didn't.
And then we had to think about why.
And sometimes this is very important, because sometimes there is something going on that relates to the relationship and us.
But much of the time there isn't, and then the person who's concerned is very likely to overthink it and come up with delusional explanations.
Oh, now they're mad at me. Oh, they hate me. Oh, they're seeing someone else. Oh, they decided I wasn't interesting.
Oh, I did something wrong. And that one thing right there, I did something wrong, is one of the fundamental concerns for human beings in relations.
And so, you know, if we have done something wrong, clearly I did something that upset this guy in our gaming team.
But he wouldn't talk to me about it. And he wouldn't talk to anybody about it.
So we never really found out what it was, although once we were back together and we could process it, it was fairly easy to see what was likely.
So these are my thoughts for today.
I'm now at the point in my walk where I'll head home very soon and process this recording with my computer and glue an image to it and put it up on YouTube where some few of you will listen.
Thank you for joining me. I look forward to learning and exploring again very soon.
May your world be rich with beautiful relationships, adventure, learning, prosperity, health, and wonder.
Bye-bye for now.
