And the edge, the forward edge of that interval, is death, so too with food.
For some of us, so too with positive relation with other humans.
We are extremely sensitive to the timing of communications behaviors, and we are vulnerable, and it's the opposite of vulnerability.
We are trophic. We are philic to the positive reassuring, encouraging attention of other humans and of animals.
So anything that disrupts or mechanizes the otherwise natural rhythms of our relational interiority,
our emotional, what am I thinking of, our emotional rhythms, tempos.
Anything that mechanizes that is going to cause anguish, dis-ease, pathology, and will genuinely fuck us up.
Pardon me, ma'am.
And the more trenchant, the more it becomes important to allow these technologies to mechanize the between of us.
The more new forms of suffering and pathology will naturally emerge, mutate, and become effulgent in our direct experience, and this means dead human relationships.
It also means a profusion of representations of relationships that are not actually relationships.
In the same way we get, in the same way we have money, which is a representation of value that actually has no value whatsoever.
It will not keep you alive unless everybody agrees that it has value, will not feed you, will not clothe you, will not love you.
It only works because there's an agreement among the humans that the representation is real, and this is one of our greatest vulnerabilities as humans.
To substitute representations for relationships, health, well-being, creativity, desire, play, joy, wonder, awe, ecstasy, the virtues and beauties of our potentials.
We notice tempo.
If I start speaking like this and I'm talking really fast over and over again to you over a long period of time, and I'm talking very intensely, you will not have a joyful experience, and neither will I.
But if I talk softly and I slow the tempo down, and it takes me a minute to do that, so that it more resembles something like a heartbeat rather than a typewriter, we all prosper.
Naturally we relax, naturally we feel comfort, reassurance, safety, calm, protection.
Tempos matter in human cognition and nervous systems.
Anything that accelerates them had better be doing that for a damn good reason.
I'm going to pause, but don't be worried.
Haven't abandoned you, I'm not angry, I haven't judged you.
I'm actually just going to eat some food.
I shall return, hopefully, shortly.
Stay with me.
So, the actual interval was probably 30 minutes electronically reduced to nearly none.
But during that time, I wandered into Green Apple Books on 9th Avenue, a bookstore that I have a long history of, or a bookstore company that I have a long history of relation with.
One of my close friends, brilliant poet George Albin, was a buyer for the one on Clement for many years.
Before I lived here in San Francisco, Green Apple and also city lights, particularly city lights, were attractions that would make it worth my while to drive here.
And deal with the inconveniences of parking and so forth.
Also certain comic book shops, we still have one in my neighborhood which is shocking, truly shocking.
But I wandered into Green Apple and invariably the conversation occurring between the employees is extremely fascinating, witty, brilliant, intelligent.
Yeah, mostly, mostly. Everything okay with you? Good to see you as well.
Life is short. My father is gone. COVID. Two years. Yeah, I was like watching myself die, we have the same face.
Somebody asked us if we were twins once. It is.
It did. Yeah, it's not done. Yeah.
Good to see you. Thank you.
So yeah, whenever I'm in Green Apple, I listen to the employee banter.
And these are mostly a bunch of 20-somethings, but very well read, articulate, curious, divergent, and it's always so entertaining to hear their banter.
And today, I mean, it's much more entertaining than almost anything that I listen to.
Though I admit, I find one of the young women who were so very attractive.
Oh, I'm going to have another pause here.
Say hello to your neighbor.
Yeah, I just love to hear the music of their voices, how they entertain each other, what they're talking about.
Always brilliant artsy, intelligent, playful conversation that I just don't get any of. You want to talk intervals?
Jeez, it's been probably 20 or 30 years since I've been around anything resembling that.
When I first came here, I was part of a thriving community of artists and writers, painters, musicians, dancers, actors, comedians.
And over time, there was just this vast exodus primarily due to gentrification, meaning the cost of living and renting here became unsustainable for nearly all of my friends.
And I'm the last, I'm the sort of Robinson Crusoe of them.
I doubt any of them live here anymore. A number of them are dead.
So, I love listening. I mean, there's a truly terrifying gap. The only time I get much of that these days.
And there must be some remedy for this. I just don't understand how to obtain it or become it.
Yeah, the only time I get any of that is occasionally when I'm dreaming.
There's a truly painful gap in my life.
Actually, I can't really even understand what life is without that. Like, why is there anything?
Why does anything continue if there's no artful, creative, intelligent, joyful play every day?
Just naturally.
You know, if I had to, the kind of terrible thing is that I saw this coming.
And I wrote incisively about it in the 80s and early 90s,
when the Republicans were attacking a national endowment for the arts and education in general.
And I saw those as the oxygen. I saw the arts and education as the oxygen in the social bloodstream.
And so, back then, in the day, I published an art and literary journal called Cyanosis, which is a medical term that refers to the bluish tint
that the skin acquires when our oxygenation, our blood ox drops below, say, 80.
What? I don't know what the actual measurement is. 80 what?
I don't know. 80 on the pulse oximeter.
When we see people who are drowned or dead, they are often bluish.
So, there will be a gap, and we will experience many technologically imposed gaps.
But let us remain aware of the richness, the oxygen we make in each other's lives,
by agreeing to learn and grow and play and create together for each other,
and the history and future of life on our planet.
That is what I serve. That is what I adore.
Not the machines, not the social media platforms, not the politics, not the religion, not the war.
The children, the mothers, the fathers, the babies, the history, the future, the great world forest,
the great world oceans, the living places of this beautiful planet, who I love forever.
May your ways and thoughts speak last.
I look forward to learning together again sometime soon. Bye-bye for now.
