Hello everybody! Welcome! I am walking around the lake. I can see a couple of turtles sunning
themselves on the above water end of a log. It's funny how they extend their legs and open
the flaps of their feet to capture the sunlight. I was capturing a little sunlight myself about 45
minutes ago. Took off my upper body clothes and sat some zazen in the children's garden. Only the
first time I sat, well, not too long. I wanted to get a little bit of sun on my skin. It's
been rainy here, which is lovely in its own way. But as we get older and more inclined to eat our
way to comfort and put on weight, it becomes challenging to maintain some degree of fitness.
So I like to get out and walk. When it's raining, that can be tough. Yesterday, I did climb a couple of
the steeper hills near my house. There's a few of them. Some of them are pretty steep and they last
for about a mile or so. So I got a little exercise yesterday. You know, we have this game. I actually
don't know very much about it. But I can imagine what it's about and I've probably played it once or
twice in my life. It's called Snicks and Ladders. And the concept reminds me of how fundamental,
how primordial two features of our lived experience are that we may not ordinarily direct our attention to.
And the first of those features is routes. Think about how you get to the places that you go regularly
or how you figure out how to get to places you don't go regularly. And realize that for nearly all of human
history, there was no such thing as a computer that would tell you where to turn, which meant you had
to compute the route ahead of time, or at least know the milestones in the route, where to turn,
where not to turn, so forth. Now, if you happen to see a human being or an animal at a specific place, at
a specific time, there's a very good chance. Well, there's a reasonable probability. It depends on many
other variables, but there's a reasonable probability that if you're around that same place at
approximately the same time, you may see that animal or that human again. Now, for plants, routes still
exist, but they are the routes the plants take in growing. And routes are absolutely fundamental to
animals. The humans don't realize how fundamental they are, primarily because they tend to skip the
experience of the routes. And the second primordial thing is gaps. Obviously, if you look at a plant,
you I'm looking at a sleeping tree has no greenery. And I see the route of its shape and branching. And
then I also see the polarity of the route in the gaps between the branches. I am presently walking a
route very familiar to me. If you wanted to catch up with me, you'd have a pretty good shot at doing so
in the late afternoon on this route. I'm here nearly every day. A somewhat dangerous announcement since
I think there are very few people with good intentions who would like to catch up with me. And a few
relatively serious people with not so good intentions. And in case one of you is listening, yes, I'm
aware you exist. I'm aware of your machinations. Quite aware. In the same way you're aware of me. I'm aware
of you. So yeah, not much, not much help in announcing my whereabouts. Generally, I am a private
person. I don't announce the features of my life to the public or social media. Though I'm very open
with those I love and those who love me. Unfortunately, most of those people are far away.
But what I'm actually concerned about today is gaps. And I'm concerned with a specific problem in human
relational cognition. And I call it interpreting the gap. But it might be better called something
that placed a more derogatory connotation, inditing the gap, right, accusing the gap. And I'll get to
what I mean by that in a moment. As a computer technician, working in the 90s and 2000s, I was ahead
of the game as regards features of the internet and email. I had been a BBS user. So we had
electronic messaging long before it came to the public. And most of that was cooperative.
As I watched the birth of email, and with it the capacity for rapid or even instantaneous
communication, I quickly discovered that this was problematical for humans.
That it was problematical for a number of reasons. The first being that we would rarely communicate
with what I might call dire pragmatism, right, brief, concise statements, declarations, questions, so
forth, devoid of context in conversation or togetherness. So sudden message from the blue
acquires senses of urgency that are inappropriate to human communication, and dangerous to human
relationships, fundamentally dangerous. I myself suffered from the results of those dangers in my
own relationships, losing more than one or two to the capacity to communicate instantaneously and in a
decontexted relational situation. So that began, that was when my skepticism about up until that point, I
believed so fervently in the benefit of computer technologies. I was a technophile. And that very
quickly changed. Over a span of a few years, I realized, oh, shit, these things are ripping our
minds and relationships apart. And some of you listeners will naturally object and will say, oh, how
ironic, Darren, you're using a computer right now to talk into my ear. And without that computer, there'd be no
chance of this situation at all. I would not know you, you would not know me. Certainly, there'd be no
exchange of thought, positive concern, ideas, and so forth between us without this technology not true. Seems
true. First glance, not true. Second, third glance. Because before the existence of computers, we participated in
networks that were organic and human. Mailchains, mail art, clubs, societies, many different kinds of human
networks. And there are older networks, anciently evolved networks, that require no physical technology
whatsoever, no physical contact whatsoever. No one believes in these due to our, well, not no one, few believe in
such networks due to our materialist, reductionist religions, or eliminative materialist religions, and
philosophies. But I promise you, those networks exist, are accessible to your body and mind, spirit, soul, and our
real. When, when I was a technician in the 90s, I was working for a client magazine publisher. And I switched from
being a, a farmed consultant, right, a company was being paid to, a company was being paid to farm me to the
publisher for like a week out of the month. And I switched to being a private consultant. They bought me out of the
contract with my employer, the non compete, right? They bought me out of that. And I was working for them directly. And they
asked me if I'd wear a beeper. They offered me a very significant sum of money to wear a beeper. More than $2,000 a month.
Like actually more than double that. And I refused. And they were like, why, why, you know, like, first of all, I work for you,
but I don't want to be tethered to you. Secondly, if you need me, I'm not hard to reach. You'll be able to reach me most of the
time within 30 minutes, no matter what I'm doing. Just call me on my landline. So I continue to work for them for a time. By that
time, I had become very suspicious of the developing communications technologies, and was well aware of their general toxicity. Meanwhile, right
across the street was Wired magazine, who tried to hire me away from PC World, where I was actually producing their magazine, helping
produce their magazine on Macintoshes, ironically. And Wired tried to hire me away with the coolness factor. By the way, all of these
things have to do with routes and gaps. In case this isn't obvious, I'll just surround you. And Wired basically wanted me to work for
them effectively 24 seven for about an eighth of what PC World was paying me. And I only had to work for PC World five days out of the
month. So the offer was ridiculous and Wired was famous for underpaying and overworking their employees.
Under the ages of being extremely cool and having like a game room and a chef come in, you know, the typical sort of Silicon Valley perks. I wasn't
impressed. I mean, I was modestly impressed. The work environment was vastly cooler at Wired. But I could see the propensity for slave driving. So I avoided it. Now, as electronic
communication developed, and people started carrying phones around with them. This was a dream. This was a fervent dream of our childhood. We used to watch, when I was a kid, we used to watch Dick Tracy
cartoons. And they had these watches on which they could video chat. And we thought, Oh, my God, if you gave us that, we could take over the world, which we probably could have.
Because back then it was content, right? Everything, the relationships were deep, deeply content rich.
Our play and our adventuring as young as young male American children, mostly, was profound.
And we, you know, we were, we managed to do some fairly crazy stuff with simply walkie talkies and tape recorders.
So when I saw the communications environment begin to change toward instantaneous communication, I remembered the lessons that I had learned from watching email develop among my peer group.
And seeing the extreme danger of trivial off the cuff comments, thoughts, communications.
None of us were trained in the dangers. And since we didn't know the dangers, we were like chicks crossing freeways.
A lot of those relationships died simply because of a message sent in haste, without forethought, or a message received with no that was evaluated according to something that had nothing to do with the intentions of the sender.
Because the sender's intentions could not be reasonably ascertained from, you know, 16 words in text, no vocal music.
The brevity, the abruptness is naturally interpreted as disdain in human relational cognition.
Even when there's no disdain intended, there are many, many other dangers.
It's not my goal to hear, catalog them, but to highlight a few and to survey the landscape from above.
So when people started using smartphones, the turtles have turned in sunlight since I last passed them, right, that's the, by the way, that's the gap, right?
The gap between, first of all, it's the iteration of a route I've circled the place where I'm at.
And the iteration produces the gap between the two.
Witnessings of the turtles, those particular turtles.
So I saw the danger and I avoided using or obtaining a smartphone for many years, until approximately late 2016.
For a little while, maybe a couple years before that, I had a small iPod on which I could Skype with distant friends and so forth.
That was an experiment to see what it would like to, what it would be like to have a handheld device.
Surprisingly, that device showed up in my dreaming almost immediately after acquiring it.
And I have been cognitively, emotionally, and perhaps a-neerically transformed by carrying a smartphone since around 2016.
So, it wasn't until about 20, probably mid-2018, that I ever took the phone out of the house.
I did not carry it with me initially, and I was shocked to discover what a radical and sudden, jarring transformation of consciousness could be produced by nothing more
than turning my attention from my surroundings to the screen of a phone, and in case it isn't clear to you, what we're talking about here are routes and gaps.
In this case, we're talking about routes in consciousness, routes in awareness, attentional routes,
and the gaps between various modes of attention and what they produce in terms of habit and outcome in our nervous systems, minds, relationships, and so on.
Ah, accusing the gaps.
So, once you know that people are receiving, their device is receiving your message, essentially instantly, in most cases, a few exceptions,
then one naturally wonders what produces the interval between their reception and their response, if they respond.
And one is inclined because we are cognitively tropic to attend ambiguity and threat, and also to make predictions around these
that triad, prediction, ambiguity, vigilance, and vigilance has two polarities primarily, it's actually quite complex, but there are two primary polarities which are opportunity and threat.
And so, when we send a message, as I did yesterday to a close friend, and we don't receive a response in what we imagine to be a reasonable amount of time, let's say 12 hours,
especially if we ask them a question or express a need, then we are inclined to begin interpreting the gap.
Now, there are certain technologies, particularly social media technologies, that amplify this danger manyfold.
For people who use Facebook or Instagram or Pinterest, or Twitter, or all of them, there's a lot of rescue copters flying today.
There must be an accident in the ocean.
By the way, notice that I, to make that observation, I must be interpreting the routes, because I've noticed three helicopters of different kinds going in the same route.
And then also the gaps over what period, like how, what's the interval, and it's been about 25 to 30 minutes between each copter.
And the fact that more than one would go there indicates something serious.
So, for those of us who either utilize, or to some degree, depend upon social media, for our business, for recruiting clients, for getting paid, for attention, for building new relationships, or maintaining existing ones,
the interval between interactions becomes very gravidic, it draws our attention to it, and perhaps exaggerates our concerns, our sensitivities, wrong footing us in the relational dance.
This is a term from Tennis.
So, preparing us to fail, rewarding with dire neurochemistry and nervous system problems,
rewarding us with dire outcomes for misunderstood communications behavior.
You know, I had, I used the past tense, I had a friend who was quite active on Facebook,
and would constantly be interpreting and asking me questions about the gap.
Why hasn't this post flourished?
My other posts usually get X number of views, say 300.
This one's only gotten 75.
Is Facebook throttling me?
Has someone complained?
What is generating the difference?
This is exactly the problem with accusing the gap.
Most often, I would simply advise my friend that the variability in the medium and people's participation in it,
are temporal routes, attentional routes, intervals, gaps, branches, and so forth.
So, I would usually advise my friend that it's not a problem, let it go, you'll see shortly those numbers will come up.
And sometimes my friend would express their gratitude for my advice,
which usually was something equivalent to calm down, pay attention,
go about your ordinary creative way of being alive and in your relationships.
I'm not singing the praises of my advice, which in most cases was solicited by my friend.
What I'm trying to say is that the amount of interval checking that was going on in that person's life,
the amount of checking and interpreting the interval, and not just on social media,
but in every aspect of their lives, was extreme and was producing cognitive, relational, emotional, psychological,
and sequelae consequences.
And my friend is not aware of this.
Now, eventually, at some degree of risk and expense, I went to visit my friend.
And they did the same, exactly the same thing while I was there for a few days.
And then I simply left.
What they did was misinterpret what they weren't seeing, what they thought was missing and should be there,
across some interval, right?
Some interval of like six hours or 10 hours or something.
And one of the problems with interpreting the gap is that the intervallic intelligence,
the natural rhythms and temporalities of somebody who is not on social media 14 hours a day,
are completely different from those of someone who is.
And the relational expectations completely different.
A little bit of positive attention over six hours is lovely.
The expectation of constant worship is ridiculous and unnatural.
Yet, especially for, let us say, for attractive females, the frequency at which they receive
appears to be the positive attention of onlookers, surveylers, quote, fans, unquote.
The frequency on social media is very high.
And so they might mistakenly transfer the expectation of that frequency to other relationships.
And when those other relationships do not produce a similar frequency, once again, gaps, intervals or outs,
they find cause to become suspicious.
And in case this isn't obvious, I'll make it very clear.
Our human cognition is such that once we become suspicious, it's going to be very difficult to turn that down.
To turn the volume on the vigilance and the negative predictions, turn those down.
The suspicion colors the water.
And once the water is colored red, we suspect bloodletting is either occurring or will soon occur and so forth.
Now, this is an example of a personal relationship that I believe was very negatively affected.
By having been preconditioned by social media to a large degree.
There are, I do have relationships that arose in social media
that don't really have this problem.
Ancient, complex relationship, out in front of me, dogs and squirrels.
The dogs become preternaturally alert in the presence of squirrels.
And you can see, again, vigilance, gaps, all these things, right?
What's the distance between me and that squirrel?
Can I cross it before they move out of range?
I will remember where I encountered a squirrel probably for the rest of my life if I'm a dog.
So, when we send a message, or if we, you know, even if the message is very strange in terms of the kinds of messages that humans have sent for billions of human life talks,
if we click on someone's post and like it or select an emoji,
some interval between our interaction, our electronic interaction with their content,
and them receiving some notification of it.
And humans are easily entrained by electronic signaling protocols.
We are profoundly vulnerable, if not addicted, to anything that presents as positive observation by desirable others.
Obviously, especially for women, there's plenty of negative observation.
Observation we don't desire, right?
Less so for men, generally speaking, but it does happen.
The positive observation of the people with whom we work or the administrative elements in society is helpful and useful.
Negative observation is dangerous.
They're grinding up trees in the botanical gardens again.
There's an interval I wish would be much longer, right?
The interval between the cutting down and grinding up of trees in Golden Gate Park has recently been some vicious tree slaughter at the Gateway on 9th Avenue to this park.
Just arbitrary slaughtering of trees, some of whom I dearly love and have long known.
So it's funny, you know, there's one relationship where, in my life, where we don't really communicate much at all over years,
and yet this relationship lives in my heart with, perhaps, undue emphasis.
And it's a beautiful and somewhat painful relationship.
You know, I've found a couple of nightcrawlers on the path where the humans are treading,
and they are relatively desiccated.
So the problem is that the interval between access to moisture and desiccation in sunlight on pavement is too long.
They may perish, but I move them to a place where moisture is accessible to them, perhaps too late.
You know, there is a different for each person, but there is a survivable interval.
There is an interval over which we can still be alive without water, without our moisture being replenished somehow.
