sounds are being emitted and transformed over time or the language is being released from its
ordinary prison of expected structure and form and grammar.
And not all of these experiments are beautiful to everyone.
Some of the experiments are terrifying or ugly or poorly done or whatever,
but that experimental visionary behavior is profound and deeply involves memory,
as does dreaming. So when you think carefully about like well what if we wanted to figure out
what if we wanted a decent starting place to think about the supercontainer from memory
is one of them. But I would add something to that. I would say it's memory in communion,
co-mutual unity. It's not just memory, some quality or propensity of stuff or feelings or energy.
It's relation and the anciently conserved aspects of relation that become embodied.
Now of course when we think about the supercontainer, what everything is, what everything's doing,
what everything's for, what everything's about,
the purpose of everything, things like this. Unfortunately we tend to think in categories
and forms that are familiar to us from our kind of ordinary lives, but the topic is fundamentally
non-ordinary. So we're in a bit of a, we're in a bit of a, we're in danger of giving into our habits
and their, the impoverishments they usually induce or introduce. But when we think about
anything that pro-generates many beings and many forms of being, and in fact pro-generates the
possibility of minds and bodies and souls and such. As long as we evict the non-ordinary,
in a way not too similar to how cities evict nature, as long as we evict the non-ordinary and
sort of cage it and formulate it so that it's predictable and stuff. Then we find ourselves
in a peculiar situation. We have to think from outside the classes and categories and qualities
that we're ordinarily trapped in. And that's not as challenging as it sounds. In fact usually
it feels really good. It's a really exciting and liberating experience
that doesn't destroy those things. We still have access to them. It just gives us a starting position
beyond them. For most people
they may think about the sun as a big explosion in the sky and the sun is a,
is a supercontainer topic. It's, it's what I call a holofore. One of the primordially important
concept elements in our lexicons and ideas.
It's uncommon that people look to the sun and think, ah, here is the progenitor of worlds.
This more than just a being is the cause and origin of minds, including the mind with which I now
behold and consider it. Now there are many mundane things, more mundane things than the sun that also
have this quality. Trees are a simple example. On earth, trees are fundamental to everything. Your
body is tree-like. Your limbs are tree-like. We have branches and extensions and roots. We keep
our feet in shoes in the dark most of the time. Not an accident and not just to protect our feet.
So when we think of
metatopics like memory or light or time or dreaming or birth and death, the sun, organisms,
we should be cautious about beginning with our commonly held notions and I really mean the word
notion. Beliefs, ideas, definitions, and so on. We should be very skeptical about this because
well there's a technical problem having to do with set theory.
I'll state one of the versions briefly but I'll try and make a simpler construct.
Does the set of all sets that don't contain themselves contain itself or not?
And this is the problem when we think about metatopics. Our derivative concepts cannot
encompass their own origin. Their origin is something directly accessible deep within us
but it cannot be encompassed by concepts. Concepts are derivations of it. So in the same way,
minds created computers. Human minds built computers. Computers didn't build human minds
though they influenced them deeply. And so computers aren't minds. Computers are a derivative product
of a very narrow and specific form of goal seeking behavior and technological memory,
meaning accomplishments over time.
But the mind with which we consider the sun and quote what it is or quote what it is doing,
well what it is doing around here is pretty much everything. If that thing goes away you got
nava. The planets will spin apart. All life on earth would perish very quickly but not instantly
in so much as we understand physics today.
All minds would be gone. No sun, no minds. And this brings up the topic of precedence
and in metatopics we must preserve the precedence of the metatopic like memory or the sun or the
universe and not allow it to be collapsed into some technological representation like a hologram
or a computer which is just as ridiculous as saying that like your actual human hand
is really nothing other than a fork. It's just a peculiar fork. There's no possibility of this
being true. One can think this way and form this idea but it's an idea that is intelligence
destroying and awareness destroying. It's a great impoverishment.
And remember at the beginning that I said when we think about metatopics like the universe or god,
time or light, we need to preserve the mystery. What's actually been described and quote unquote
explained is always some incredibly modest tiny percentage of what can be known especially if
we were free of the habits that thus impoverish us even for a few moments. So I'm a big fan of
that liberation. I'd like us all to be able to consider the nature of the deep questions
about life, birth and death, time and light, the universe, divine beings,
non-ordinary reality, dreaming, friendship, love, all these things in much deeper ways than we
commonly are trained to by our language and culture. The universe is not a hallmark card.
For the Greeks, nemosony, the word that we get another programming term nemonic from,
though that term has other uses, nemosony was a divine being who was memory
and she was the mother of the muses. I don't recall the common catalogues of muses.
I think Terpsicor was one of them. There was one that represented epic poetry and so on
and another that represented lyric poetry, these two being seen as distinct,
which is a reasonable distinction. The Iliad is epic poetry, lyric poetry is the stuff
that's musical rather than dramatic.
In any case, what they intended I think was to understand that without memory
there is nothing, there are no arts, there is no knowledge, there are no languages,
there is no music, there is no dance, there is, memory is everything in a way.
And again, let's preserve the mystery. What do we mean by memory? But of course,
I tried to have a clumsy go at that by saying the conservation of forms,
relationships, transformations, and the re-expression of these forms, transformations,
and relationships over time in new embodiments and potentials and forms, possibilities, opportunity.
Now there's something fundamental going on. Once you have memory, now you have,
and perhaps it's possible without memory, though it's hard for me to imagine how,
but now you have the plausible horizon of something that we would refer to as intelligence.
And I'm using this word with an asterisk to mean all forms of intelligence, endless forms.
And really, each kind of relation is a form of time, a re-enaction of memory,
and a form of intelligence. And so, time, memory, and intelligence, these form a sort of braid,
from which we might imagine all experienceable reality emerges.
But it's not my intent to collapse the supercontainer to memory. I was just thinking,
you know, if I wanted to have a go, what could I pick that would at least relieve me of some
of the common limitations and perhaps grant me some new insights? And this is how I believe
would become more aware and more intelligent by experimenting in this way.
Can I be more deeply present? Can I be more deeply loving?
Can I activate my curiosity and fascination in such a way that they shed new forms of light
in my mind and awareness and body so that new opportunities and potentials for development
and understanding and the dissolution or dissolving of common errors, right, getting
rid of impediments that are otherwise very, have a very strong grasp or
enclosure of our minds and potentials and awareness. So I'm not sure if I finished my walk
yet. I accomplished one of my minimal goals, just to visit an old place.
And I think for now, I'll probably wrap up the recording
and hope that perhaps within it, you may have found something enlightening or memorable,
something that will add new opportunities to your life and mind and
wonder. Thank you for joining me. I look forward to learning together again sometime very soon.
