Hello everybody. Welcome. It's a little chilly here, so you might hear a little bit of mic
noise from my mic being inside my hoodie. Up for a walk in the evening in a neighborhood
I grew up in. It's very, it's a very disorienting experience in the sense of I'm very used to my
common haunts and as many of you know I live in San Francisco and ordinarily I spend a good
portion of my day in living places within the city and that's very important for me because the
highly structured places of the city, well I find them disturbing in many senses. Of course most of
us who have lived in cities, we also find the structured predictability and sequencing
of cities familiar. One might say it's an addictive kind of deprivation. We're walking on the pavement. We
still have to be careful but much less careful than if we're walking on wild land or places where
there aren't already trails. If there's not already trails, we have to be sensitive meaning we become
intimate with the transformations beneath our feet as we travel and the signals around us,
all of which transform from dead mechanical object signals like cars and street lights and
smartphones to living signals. The direction the breeze is coming from. The music of the animals,
presuming there are some we can hear and if we're very sensitive to the land then an array of
effectively magical things occurs. Magical for most of us who've never experienced them and yet
probably those who are familiar with them would also agree there's something extraordinary and
non-ordinary in the living world. Now even in cities,
in most of the places the living world hasn't been entirely evicted but that seems to be
the basic idea, control things,
make them predictable, reduce novelty so that we can carry out the relatively superficial
transactions that our lives in cities are built around and require to be maintained.
I've known the place I'm walking in a peculiar phase of my life many decades ago and I've been inside
most of the houses, many of the houses anyway, that I'm walking past and new people who lived there
had adventures here and so one of the things that's happening for me is
and there's a lot of different things happening for me or as me, I'm flooded with memory,
recollections of previous times and situations, events, relationships,
misadventures, adventures, pain, love, confusion, wonder, hope.
And so before I began I was thinking briefly about
what is and I think must be one of the most central metatopics we can become curious about
and that is memory.
Ordinarily we think of memory in a pretty simple way.
We think of it as a collection of recordings or at least that's the analogy we might use.
These are traces left over in our, we think, consciousness of previous time and our relations
within it.
That's our standard sort of surface-level
thought about memory but usually that's what's meant when we use this word.
In different contexts the word takes on different meanings and connotations.
We have this idea that when someone we love dies we will engage in memorial
activities and behaviors.
And we, many of us, make commitments to keep them alive in our lives and heart, our spirit.
But when I said memory is a metatopic what I meant is
there's a particular cognitive move that I call, often I call it an attack on the supercontainer.
And what that is is a situation where someone attempts to say, rather distinctly and blatantly,
what everything is.
Now honestly it would be a lot more interesting if we knew,
for example, what everything was, quote, for, unquote, or what everything is doing, unquote.
Like what's the fundamental purpose of everything?
What's the thing, what's the purpose that all things share, all processes, all things, all moments, all situations?
And these are dangerous ideas because the supercontainer should remain
I think in an intelligent mind
The supercontainer should have a generous portion of mystery and the unknown associated with it.
And by a generous portion I mean like 80 plus percent.
In ordinary circumstances our faculties are very narrow
and so too are intelligence, curiosity, thoughtfulness, insight, awareness, right?
In ordinary circumstances moment to moment as one's driving down the street or walking,
unless one is engaged in deep thoughts or, you know, active curiosity,
we tend to just continue with the habits that we're familiar with.
And we also have habits that we tend to preserve when thinking about things
and we're mostly unaware of them, but if we could drop them for a moment
and be free of the sequencing of our history and thought line,
a vast and beautiful, perhaps even an ecstatic mystery would immediately emerge in our awareness.
And we would realize I am this mystery, this mystery is my mind.
Though our verbal realizations would be nearly useless
when compared with the actual experience of liberation from our thoughts, ideas,
identifications and so on.
An attack on the superintendent's container resembles something
like when some extremely crude headlines says your brain is a computer or the universe is a
hologram or something like this. And almost always the is of identity, right, is employed,
meaning we're going to say one thing is really just, and that just word is important,
some other thing that we're familiar with and often strangely, truly in a kind of terrifying way,
this other thing is some technology humans have developed.
Now, whatever might be going on, that's impossible.
It's formally impossible that your mind is just a computer, the universe is just a hologram,
and even if the universe was a hologram, what's it a hologram of and why, you know,
and who made it and so on and so forth. Now, it can't be a hologram for simple reasons,
but all of these arguments avoid where I want to go.
And I've made them many times before, though I often repeat myself as I get older.
But what if memory is most of what's going on? If we were going to compare the universe to
something, especially the universe of our incarnate experience, and we look very carefully,
we may find to our surprise that the idea that everything is memory
is both non-technological, fascinating, and relatively easily demonstrated.
Time-space is the memory of the development of this universe.
Worlds are the memory of their formation in time-space and stars and such.
Organisms are memory lineages.
Our minds, particularly our conscious minds and our linguistic minds,
are the preserved memory traces of hundreds of thousands of generations of living human beings,
and their relationships with the world, living places, plants and animals, insects, ideas.
So if I was going to make a clumsy attack on the supercontainer,
which generally I prefer not to do, but if someone sort of, you know, nudged me and
really wanted me to have a go at it, I might consider saying that everything is memory.
And fundamentally, this is one perhaps superficial interpretation of
the meaning of karma.
Karma is memory in the context of a being's many existences.
And we usually think of this as though a separate being is having many existences,
but that's an unnecessary derivation.
Clearly, none of us are entirely distinct. We are not merely connected.
We are co-existing, right? We only exist together, even though, you know, you can go home and sit in
your room by yourself, quote unquote, and do something. Unless you're doing something that's
just creative, and even if you are writing a story or a song, you're interacting with memory,
and you're structuring memory, and all kinds of memorial assets come into play.
Therefore, we're not really alone, though we may feel loneliness and things like that,
and those feelings may be natural to us. It's not that they're just a superficial
expression of something that's confused, although many deep spiritual traditions might posit this.
So my point is that there's no such thing really as a separate self, except that we think that way,
and so that separate self exists in our thoughts.
I'm reminded that some time ago I had a dream in which I was looking in a mirror in the dream,
and I had a different face, and I was quite confused, and I wasn't sure I really liked
this face, and I thought I maybe preferred my old one, and things like this, or at least,
this is what I remember thinking about my dream, or in my dream, presuming that in a dream I was
thinking at all. I remember anyway having these feelings or concerns.
The ideas of distinction and separateness that arise in our common thinking,
and perhaps influence how we live our lives, these ideas are,
well, they're a particular kind or species of fiction, a very compelling fiction,
in certain ways, but nonetheless a relatively superficial one. Under the right circumstances,
if we were relieved of our representational overlays and their trenchant influence on how we
think and also our feelings, we would likely have an experience of a kind of grand celebration
of profound ecstatic communion among all beings in all of time, and even the idea of a separate
self when examined carefully, even if it's examined in the light of some tradition,
such as the Vedas or Zen Buddhism, this idea, it doesn't hold much water, not for very long,
it dissolves pretty quickly, so that we could imagine that the self, quote unquote,
that travels through many incarnations or existences, is actually a constellation
of self-like processes, some of which are preserved, some of which make new friends,
some of which fall away, but something very complex like a web of elements
in five or more dimensions, including time. The dimension that we often ignore in English
and science is the most profuse dimension of all, it's the dimension of relationship.
And of course, science has to use particular tools to evict relationship,
so that it can study very specific formalizable aspects of situations and transformations and such,
much in the way the cities evict nature, or otherwise, engage it.
So, with this view, one can see that the idea of karma,
one can hold it in their mind without the cognitive drag produced by the illusion
that karma is something that happens to a separate distinct self,
and that memory is something that belongs to a separate distinct self.
When really what we have is more like a neighborhood, or like a living place,
myriads of elements and beings, past, present, and future, in a vast web of relations and
transformation and mutuality and conflict and all of these things. So, not really a separate self,
or rather something much more fascinating than the idea of a separate self,
and something infinitely more plausible, because the separate self is really not possible.
You didn't acquire language from yourself, you didn't acquire your habits of thinking or
behavior from yourself, you learned them by observing and emulating other human beings and
living places, living creatures, relationships.
But you can see how compelling the attack on the supercontainer
that is expressed as everything is memory is. Now, that doesn't tell us what memory itself is,
it just finds in our lexicon an element that has some likeness and perhaps explanatory power,
the second is less interesting, about the nature of what's going on. It's all memory.
Everything is formed of ancient origins and relationships and transformations and
conservations and it's the opposite of a conservation.
Things discarded, parts that fell away or were lost, elements that dissolved or disappeared.
Now, of course, do they ever actually disappear? Well, that's a matter of locality.
Depends on where you are in time and relation, whether things disappear or not.
Since we presume that we cannot, in our separate selves, travel back in time
to re-experience or newly experience something remembered or someone remembered,
we become sort of confused and we think, oh, I only exist right here now and there are many
spiritual traditions that would like us to adopt that perspective for useful purposes.
Something very profound about existing right here now and just being right where you are right now,
in full presence, of course, it can never be explicitly complete, but mostly present
where you are with what you're with right in this moment. And allowing that to transform freely,
as it does without a lot of resistance or much resistance. Though, of course,
we take care not to suffer injuries and not to suffer, but most of our suffering, not all of it,
is in our minds. It's in how we think and it's also in the forms of awareness
that we preserve and re-enact and embellish and so on.
It's a peculiar feeling
to walk in this old neighborhood where I was a teenager for a time
and a child for a time and see these old houses and how the trees have grown.
There's something kind of comforting about the fact that it still exists because
I think it had come to seem to me almost like an alternate universe.
And I do think that in our, I think we're also confused about the idea that our life is a single
thing. Though, you know, there's a sense in which that's true. The human I was born as is still
a going concern for the moment, my body still doing the body things, my mind, all these things.
But really what I am is a concretion of memorial
relationships and investments and such that the universe has made and the sun has made
and the world has made, the moon has made, my parents made, all the beings that I directly
encounter make, billions of beings that I indirectly encounter make and some of those
billions of beings make me up. I don't directly encounter my own cells and yet we must imagine
that the hyper structure of the cells that are my body are the ones that are speaking right now.
So you're hearing the voice of my cells,
even if it is, how to put this, a representational voice, right, like a layer of the possibility
of what my cells might communicate. If they could freely communicate with humans,
the species that is both alien to them and they comprise it.
One of the ways to think about organisms
is as hyper structures endowed over millennia of development in relation
by cells, by single-celled organisms. Almost as if single-celled organisms engineered
the macro forms of life that we take as being the obvious and most important
in awareness things. Well that would be a really peculiar idea. We don't experience
the transformations of the registers within computers. We relate with the computer through
the screen primarily. But inside the computer are trillions of components transforming moment
to moment to produce the illusion that appears on the screen in a way that resembles perhaps,
I would say, let's certainly put the dream in precedence, resembles a vision or a dream.
And this began first with radio and then with, the amazing thing about radio was that
we had to imagine the pictures. Before TV, when stories were told on the radio,
basically you had kind of two forms of content. One was news,
which really should be called something other than that. And the other was stories or dramas or
comedies or such. So in the beginning our technologies brought our imaginations to life
and catalyzed us envisioning worlds and situations and such, which really is a
sub-form of dreaming. It's pretty amazing that we have minds that are completely capable of forming
what seems to be at least locally a coherent entire universe without any
obvious external stimuli, however external stimuli may affect dreaming.
And yet while we're awake, most of us resist this activity most of the time.
We're not visionary. We tend to be pretty cognitive. Now those of us who are artists,
we enact aspects of visionary consciousness in creating poems or music or writing or dance or
drama. We imagine another world in which beings are interacting or situations are happening or
