Or the features have been sketched by my purpose of orientation in thought and concern and consciousness.
But even that thing can't help but have its own origins fingerprint in it.
And so too the duck, the water, the ripples, their interference with each other.
My observation of this and then the sky above me, which is reflected in the water.
The girl on the other side of the lake looking at me.
It's not easy to determine what parts of the experience I describe are mostly the inventions of my perspective and concerns.
As is true with anything.
Sorry, I'm waiting a moment because there's some loud engine noise here.
But I got the sense.
The specific character of my perception of that person's, the character of their attention was that
I was seen, I felt as if I was being looked at like the character of what I could perceive of the gaze from far off.
Was that I was being looked at as either a threat, prey or a challenge.
I certainly wasn't challenging anyone. I wasn't threatening anyone.
She is quite slow and looks more like dancing than fighting.
I heard something very interesting and listening to an Okinawan martial arts teacher.
This is probably well known by older martial artists and some of their students.
He said, you know, in China, if you were a martial artist back in the day, they would send assassins, right?
They would send soldiers to kill you because you pose a threat to the structured hierarchical authority system and so forth.
So the martial artists quickly learned that you couldn't publicly practice at all, ever.
Because if anyone figured out that you were a martial artist, there'd be serious trouble, not just for you, possibly for your loved ones and all kinds of trouble.
So what they did is they started, they slowed everything down, right?
They hid the moves, hid the forms, the structured sequences of attack, defend, compensate, rebalance, attack, defend, take a breath.
Similar to dive, dream, wake.
The dreaming in this case is the rebalancing or rejuvenation between life or death exertions.
So they slowed the forms and they hid the movements in stuff that could be, they encrypted it.
They encrypted martial arts in dancing.
I find this in cultures probably in Java, Indonesia, the Philippines, China, Japan, many other cultures, South America.
Once it becomes deadly, whatever bullies or pirates or villains, whatever robbers and rapists and thieves and murderers,
a gang of Ronan in Japan come upon a little farming town who will stop them.
Only chance is a martial artist or two. And we have films about this, right? Seven Samurai and so forth, yeah.
So yeah, they hid everything in dance. They hid it in art.
They made it look creative and playful and beautiful.
And they were able to conserve the forms that had been developed generation to generation and transmit them to new generations via these methods.
So in a sense it was like encrypting a defense asset, right?
Now of course eventually you're going to have the same problem right where the bad guys will pay snitches.
Surreptitiously to point out anyone who's dancing this way.
All of life understands a principle that is prevalent in combat training, which is the conservation of energy.
When I was listening to the Okinawan, old Okinawan martial artists, veteran of many combats, not just a dojo teacher, right?
Someone who had to fight a lot and often with other martial artists.
Another thing that I've heard from other martial artists, which is that much of martial arts is kind of a game.
In an actual conflict, the first thing that goes out the window is any kind of rules about fair fighting or anything resembling that.
Once it goes to physical combat, you don't have time to test the water.
It's too dangerous to test the water to determine is this a combat to dominance, where one of the combatants gives up, or is it combat to death?
And you don't know, so you never treat it as if, unless it's previously agreed, you never treat it in actual combat.
It's always destroy the other person's capacity to continue the fight, and if necessary them.
So, various martial arts that are serious, train in this, though we imagine they also train the sensitivity of the practitioner,
so they don't just unleash lethal force on an unsuspecting, you know, challenger.
Because most of the challengers you will encounter, modernly, are not, they don't intend for it to go to, you know, till death do us part.
So, if you were to just unleash lethal force on them, certainly you'd be seen as a deranged person.
But most of the old methods come from times when a lot of the fighting was life or death.
So, they trained in a lot of like, asymmetric advantage for strike.
You know, first three strikes completely, unless the opponent is extremely skillful, they will completely destroy that person's capacity to continue the engagement.
So, these are things like eye rips, throat crushing, groin crushing, limb breaking, neck breaking, double ear pounds, right, where you bring fists together.
At the end of a whip motion, you bring the fists together at both ears or temples simultaneously, producing, you know, brain bleeds and so forth.
The old martial arts took death seriously, I suppose. It's a very grim topic. I myself have never been a combatant.
I don't want to hurt anyone ever. I imagine that if trapped, I may have the capability to do so.
But it's not the kind of thing I think about at practice. I don't practice arts of death.
And I understand why it is traditional for men and women to do so.
It's very exciting to see women who are, you know, skillful at the old arts so that one realizes very clearly that if somebody were to pose a threat to them.
A, it's unlikely they'd succeed and B, things would go badly for that unfortunate idiot.
You know, I remember seeing a social media video where in some other country perhaps it was wild guesses here, Taiwan, Singapore, China, Japan.
It looked more rural than what I know of Japan. A woman is walking down a broad, wide street and she's carrying her purse.
And a man drives up to her purse side on a scooter, gets off the scooter, reaches for the purse, which she flings to her right.
And as the man is chasing the purse, she mounts the scooter and drives away on it.
It's a bait and switch, an illustration of a peculiar form of relatively nefarious bait and switch.
Difficult to know whether that actually took place or whether that was produced for the social media audience because that kind of thing is very contagious.
It's a good way to get views.
I have returned to my home and as always I am grateful for this time we spend together and wish you beautiful lives and dreaming and opportunities and relationships.
Till next we meet to learn together again. Very soon. Bye bye for now.
