you're actually bridging to modes of temporality,
and those modes are intelligent,
because it turns out that locally around here,
where time and space come together,
you get sentience, you get creatures with eyes and minds,
so profound and provocative
that they can transform the meaning of reality
merely by interacting with it.
They are a mechanical.
They have nothing to do with machines.
They do not have parts.
In fact, they are like distributed relational networks
that we don't have good language about
because all the elements are once local and non-local
in astonishing ways that, again,
our languages keep us from discovering.
What I want you to understand is that when Einstein was telling us
that time and space are the same thing,
and no matter what science may imply,
there's something very peculiar going on
in that modes of time are uniquely expressive of intelligence,
and they happen to be clustered right here on Earth all around us.
We're burning them down to make machines.
That can't be intelligent.
Perhaps we've misunderstood what time really is
when we began to measure it
instead of directly experiencing it.
So if we look around on Earth,
and if you look at, say, a forest or the ocean,
what you're seeing is an astonishing array
of modes of relational time
interbeing with one another
in such a way as to co-develop
and advance both the field of play
and each constituent in various ways.
Of course, new forms emerge and some depart,
not all are to be preserved,
and over time perhaps none of these specific forms
will be preserved.
But when we look out into space
and we see phenomena such as, well, space itself,
what is that?
Because Einstein asked us to understand it as time,
and we must.
And what that means is that
when we see a galaxy, we're seeing an expression of temporality.
We're seeing an embodiment of a mode of temporality,
of modes of temporality within each other,
within themselves, yes, recursively,
reforming the entire structure.
But what about space itself?
What about just distance?
Or what about a pulsar or a quasar?
What about a black hole?
Well, each of these phenomenon,
these are temporal phenomenon.
These are expressions of the nature and character of time,
not just matter.
Matter is just one piece.
We've bracketed it off time and abstracted it
for the purposes of leveraging that abstraction scientifically.
That's very useful in the correct contexts.
But we've ignored some of the ramifications of our discoveries,
many of them, especially in language.
What is dark matter?
Allow me to suggest.
It's an unthinkably peculiar mode of time.
And time expresses itself at our scale
as intelligence,
in our bodies, in our world.
There's a relational intelligence
that is infinitely, unthinkably profound.
It's true nature is unvisitable by language.
And I think our dependence on language
too often blinds us to what's going on very near at hand.
The smaller, all the different creatures
are different modes and speeds of time,
and they are also different representations
of our own possible features of intelligence,
real features, not just possible,
but real features of our own intelligence and nature,
every being, every relationship,
every aspect of temporality in the sky and here on Earth.
What does it mean that some aspect of time produces stars,
and that as living expressions of those stars,
you're hearing my voice.
My voice is somehow the voice of that star,
and does not even belong to me in that sense,
but to something so profound and unthinkable
that we're going to have to loosen our grip on knowledge
before we're going to have any chance
of even looking in that direction together.
Now, I want to play a couple of other games with time
with you before we wrap this up.
The first one is, I want you to imagine two places
in your own life.
I'm going to say, well, I'm going to presume
you know something about your birth,
so I'll pick that one,
and then say your 10th birthday,
wherever that might have taken place.
And if you haven't had that yet, pick a smaller one.
And if you can't remember that one, pick a newer one.
I want you to imagine three different modes of space-time.
The first mode is, as a crow flies as the clock tolls
between your birth and your 10th birthday,
the location on Earth in time and space,
where Earth was in space, on your birth,
and then the location in time and space
far away from where Earth was in space 10 years ago,
in more ways than one.
But not so much worrying about that.
Let's stay on Earth.
So the location on Earth where you were born
and the time between that and your 10th birthday
and the location where you had your 10th birthday.
So first, think about it in a kind of a straight line
as the crow flies.
Just think about, you know,
the number of moments between those two events
and the straight line distance.
Maybe it's hundreds of miles.
Maybe it's in the same house. Who knows?
And then think about, but even if it's in the same house,
realize that the temporal distance
could have even been in the same room.
Maybe you were born in the room where you had your 10th birthday,
but the temporal distance is still dramatic.
Very dramatic. It's 10 years.
So there's a real distance there.
But let's take a third kind of distance
that we normally don't think about.
Think about the relational distance
between your birth and your 10th birthday.
In other words, think about all of the relationships
and changes in them, seen and unseen,
known and unknown.
All of the moments of relation with beings,
places, objects, situations,
ideas, feelings, thoughts, dreams, food,
the sky, the sun, time.
Think about all those relationships
and then traverse the distance between your
birth and your 10th birthday
and you'll have relational time.
A dimension of time we don't ordinarily include
in our mathematics, and yet,
is perhaps the most fundamental of all of them.
Now, when I take a small insect upon my finger,
say, a praying mantis,
this is a creature that well knows
all the things I've taught you
and probably more in its own unique way,
time begins to warp as the two distinct speeds
and modes of time come together
in mutual interest, discovery and unity.
And while you've been listening,
that's been happening between you and me
and all of the different modes of time
with which I am in touch.
What an exquisite grace that has been.
What an honor.
I look forward to learning so much more together
and to perhaps discovering what it would be like
to truly become intelligent together.
Let's find out.
