Human intelligence is tricky stuff. We actually know very little about it. It's shocking how little we know about our intelligence.
In fact, it's shocking how little we know about language. It's really shocking how little we know about knowledge in and of themselves.
We're really not very intelligent about intelligence. We're not very well informed about language,
which is sort of one of the primary tools we use to understand the world around us and to communicate.
Even mathematics, it's still a little confusing for us as a people and certainly as individuals.
And each of us is different. We each have different grasps of these fundamental features of experience, intelligence, language and knowledge.
One thing that's interesting to me is that modern humans are absolutely fascinated with mechanical technologies.
And they don't seem to think much of the biorelational basis of life on Earth.
Especially their collectives. How many of the individuals do, even though it's hard to say how many of the individuals have much of a sense of what it is that we refer to when we speak of nature?
It's truly what it is, although we all have an intuitive sense and we're all human beings, so we're speaking a part of ourselves.
But we don't know a lot about the language that we use to describe our world to ourselves and the ramifications it might have for our intelligence and for our world.
We're very fascinated with technology. We know a lot about what to do with electricity and computation.
We don't know much about what to do with language to radically increase our intelligence right now.
We're very interested in building intelligent machines. We haven't succeeded in producing even a small intelligent culture yet.
Not one that I can see. I haven't even seen a single example of one.
I've seen examples that begin to look close for a few moments, but not on any large scale.
Large scale stuff we produce is fairly strange and definitely strange from nature.
In order to understand why that is, we're going to need to examine the technologies of language and knowledge.
And I think we're going to need together to learn and discover how to become intelligent because we haven't managed that yet.
We've kind of got a hold of a ghost that claims to be nobility and intelligence and truth and clear seeing,
but really is something very, very different from that as you can see by the results at the collective level and in nature.
And in order to understand language a little better, I made a set of models that I could play with.
One of them I call holophores. I'm going to examine one holophore here.
To briefly state what a holophore is, it's a root concept that lies underneath language and informs all of languages meaning and power.
And usually these roots are unspoken and unnoticed. We completely overlook them, much like we do the fact that if you look around wherever you are right now,
you'll probably notice that you're absolutely surrounded by rectangles. Look at everything around you.
I'm in a room right now where I would say 80% of the objects are rectangular until I was actively introduced to that fact I never noticed it.
When I say 80% is rectangular, I mean everything, the windows, the doors, the books, this screen, the objects I'm using to record this,
actually the microphone I'm using, the interface for the application, my keyboard, my desk that all of this is sitting on,
my bed, the rug, my television, DVDs, every object around me is rectangular.
That might be significant in a way we don't normally examine. I think it is.
And in fact, underneath our language there are some unexamined roots.
They're well known things like the sun, time, a tree, earth, the moon, woman, child, friend, food, dream, light, separation, intelligence.
These words are peculiar because if you change, now this is true of many words but there are certain root elements that you can't get much more basic than,
for example, separation, take that away, no more concepts.
The sun is another one around here because everything was made in the sun, all of our language, all of our math, our religions, they're all,
in fact our bodies are solar expressions.
So if you have the wrong idea about what the sun is, it could really damage your intelligence or possibly even prohibit it.
In case this isn't really obviously clear, I think I can make it instantly clear by just referring to one of the root elements I mentioned, woman.
We can see that on earth, just the basic idea of woman and of course what we truly think of and tell each other about women is some is founded that we can't be intelligent.
In general, if you look around the world at modern cultures, we find such ridiculous ideas, so many ridiculously bizarre ideas,
about what it should mean to be a woman, what a woman is, who a woman is, how a woman is, their purposes and functions, the realities of womanhood.
We find such bizarre ideas that we actually are prohibited from becoming intelligent because the idea of woman refers to everything we all came from one.
How could it not refer to every single thing?
So if we have the wrong idea about what a woman is, how will we get the right idea about anything?
Hopefully you can see the logic there. It's similar with the idea of a tree or an animal, friend.
And some of these things have opposites in both of them work, right? Friend or enemy, separation or unity.
The one I'm going to talk about today is time.
Most of us are familiar with clock time and we may understand that there's experiential time but we might not formally separate those two, we should.
But there's some other forms of time I want to explore with you briefly today because I think you'll find them very interesting and there's some things we need to learn about time in order to just have a chance of becoming intelligent together.
Now, we've been through a few revolutions in our modern moment, most notably that brought on by relativity.
I'm not a scientist, I'm just an ordinary person like anyone else. In fact, I'm largely self-educated and my educational background would probably normally be described as impoverished.
But nonetheless, I'm astonishingly curious and I've had some unusual opportunities to learn in my life.
And time is something we've really greatly misunderstood. In fact, we haven't even caught up, we're not even close to catching up with Einstein.
With what Einstein and his colleagues and peers revealed to us back in their day, and I think I'll be able to demonstrate that to you very rapidly here now.
So one of the interesting things about each of those routes is we have to get them more and more right if we want to get more and more intelligent.
And there are some ways of getting them wrong that will prohibit our intelligence if we get them wrong in a certain way we just can't be intelligent.
And many of the ways that we think about very simple and obvious everyday phenomenon are like this.
We've become, the roots of our intelligence are damaged actually by abstraction.
This is what happens when we're overexposed to technology and we don't understand what it, we lose touch with what it once represented.
So when these roots get damaged, we can't become intelligent by repairing them.
We actually can repair other roots and our intelligence and our shot at having a future that is survivable and human and ecologically sound.
Time is one of the most important of these.
Understanding what the earth is, what an animal is, what the sun is are also crucially important.
What the human being is or can be in a more and more correct way.
There's no perfectly correct way for any of these.
They're all targets that adjust as we chase them.
That's the nature of intelligence actually.
So we can't just correct one and say okay there the sun is fixed.
But we can adjust them toward the truth dramatically.
And when we do that, there's a radical effect in all of the other things we know.
If you adjust the sun slightly toward the truth or time slightly toward the truth as Einstein did and his colleagues,
then what happens is your whole view of everything changes very dramatically including yourself.
What it means to have eyes.
What it can be to be human.
All of this changes.
So I want to examine time with you and I'm going to start with a couple of brief experiments.
The first is that there's a very different kind of time that we don't much think about.
And I call it biocognitive time.
It means the time experienced by living organisms in a way that is relative to each other.
So there's some kind of perhaps fuzzy but nonetheless discernible metric.
Whereby, for example, we know that certain animals, at least this is what I've heard anyway,
that certain animals share a similar number of heartbeats in their lifetime even though they live very different amounts of time.
So that, I don't know, perhaps a hummingbird and a human being have somewhere close to the same amount of heartbeats
but those heartbeats transpire in different orders of time.
For the most part, the hummingbird lives perhaps 10 years or less and the human may live 70 or 80.
Same number of heartbeats.
This implies a different rate of biological time.
We also know that babies develop biologically very rapidly compared to adults
which is why they're peculiarly susceptible to biological and relational insult.
They can get cancer and other diseases that come from being exposed to toxic environments very much more easily than adults.
This is because there's a different kind of time happening in the child or time is happening at a unique rate.
So we don't normally think that person A and person B could be experiencing time at different rates but they do.
And there's also another form of time that we don't pay much attention to.
I'm going to outline a few of these.
So let's start with the first idea that we know what a year is.
And that a year is something everybody can agree on.
It's the same amount of time.
Well, that's not true because first of all, a year for a baby and a year for a 20-year-old and a year for a 50-year-old and a year for a 90-year-old person.
These are not the same span experientially or biologically.
Not by a long shot.
They're not really very similar at all, actually.
If we could spread them out and check them against each other,
I have a feeling we might find that the babies was extremely long
and that they got shorter up until we got close to the elderly person and then we might see some effects.
I'm not sure exactly what they would be.
But let's go a step further.
We think we know what a year is, so imagine that you have a planet with nothing on it
and you spin that around a sun in the same position ours is,
about the same size as our planet,
around a sun about the same size as ours.
So you've got an empty planet, you spin that around the sun,
360 some odd days,
you get a year as we abstract it.
I'm true enough.
What if you put one human on that planet, then you get one human life here?
Or what if you put two?
Each of those humans experiences a fairly unique year,
even though they may have shared experience, don't you agree?
Therefore, they are each kind of a unique bubble of time, aren't they?
And so if you spin that around the sun one time, you get two years.
You see, currently there are seven billion people on earth.
So what that actually does mean is that if you spin that around the sun one time,
you get seven billion human life years per year.
Have we been paying attention to that?
Now, the same is true of the animal and ecological populations,
which we've been decimating, unfortunately,
except that they exist at a much faster rate of speed than us.
And even our own children exist at a much faster rate of speed than us.
So that one year, if we took just the people, right,
and took all the other things off the planet and spun just the people around the earth,
we'd get more than seven billion,
because some of those children would be living ten years per year.
Similarly, if we add in all the other kinds of life,
living in all the other different rates of speed,
we have something very profound indeed.
Now, we have actually orders of biocognitive temporality
that inform each other in a wave-like fashion that we participate in,
and perhaps depend upon.
We've been tearing that web apart, the web of living time,
and establishing mechanical objects in its place,
like the one you're listening to this on,
and the one that I'm recording it on.
And those objects actually compete directly with...
They're physically converting biological time into mechanical time right now.
They're doing that by erasing organisms and ecosystems
and their possibility of existing on earth in all kinds of different ways.
That doesn't mean they're only bad.
It means that our intelligence is misfunctioning wildly,
and part of that has to do with a misunderstanding about what time is
and the different kinds of time there are,
because we are a mode of time, and I intend to demonstrate that.
One of the things we didn't understand about what Einstein told us
was that space and time are somehow in a way that's difficult for us
to easily make images about in our mind.
They are the same thing.
This doesn't mean that they both go together.
That's not necessarily what they mean,
although we may have to treat them that way for purposes of science
that we can understand.
But what it does mean is something pretty radical
that nobody's been paying any attention to.
It means that space is time.
Now if you think about this carefully,
and you look out into space from earth,
and just look at what we can see,
which we may not understand its meaning or identity very well,
we only know sort of in a vague way,
is that gas, is that matter, is that energy, is that a planet,
is it stone, what is it?
We have some vague ideas at ice.
We can do spectography and things,
and we can learn about the substances that we see,
and what is interfering with light between us and objects that we see.
We can use this in incredibly intelligent ways
to learn all kinds of interesting things,
but we fail to understand something pretty basic,
which is what we see when we look away from earth,
is all temporal phenomenon.
And our science understands material phenomenon,
but it doesn't understand temporal phenomenon.
Well, material phenomenon is temporal phenomenon.
A planet is a time thing.
It's a mode of time,
in the same way that it's a mode of space,
the solid, the complex solid.
In our case, there's something really strange going on.
We've got a complex solid called the sun
that generates what we call light and energy and heat.
We've got a complex solid called the earth
that generates sentiances,
and then we've got some other complex solids called planets,
which we're not entirely sure about.
But if we just look at these three kinds of local temporal phenomenon,
we must presume something very peculiar about time.
It is like organisms.
It emits them as expressions of its nature.
In fact, they are a mode of time.
And thus, when you touch another being,
human or otherwise,
