what you got were representations of the compass that we used to make and be together
when we lived in and on the land, with and for each other, the history and future of life on
earth, which is the only real way we can be human. Even if we're living in cities, we can live this
way to some degree, and we can still orient this way together, and remember how. But what happened
was the people in the cities, their compasses didn't work, and the people who were roaming around on
the outside just follow me and pretend I'm talking about the Bible, or the Native American Indians,
or the South American Indians, because it happened in similar, if different, ways on each continent.
The people who were roaming around had a living skybook, and the people inside the
cities had a dead skybook. And so, the people who were roaming around had a living relationship
with time, which is much stranger than anyone in the cities can ever hope to imagine, and much
stranger than physics, and alive, and light, which is the same, and all of living places in every
organism, every creature, they knew them intimately, not categorically, not abstractly, as parts, not
as parts, as aspects of themselves. And they knew that each thing they saw lived inside them,
not theoretically, not like us, not like we might think that or make a religion about it.
So they could orient and were oriented in living relation, but inside the cities,
all the compasses went bad.
Real bad. And the cities had to wipe out and dominate any open terrain just to keep themselves
running, right, just to kill enough animals and make enough grain, and cut enough stone and feed
enough slaves to build that pyramid and build that amphitheater. And what's in that pyramid,
one person? The entire civil defense budget of the United States was spent to protect one man.
One man. In other countries,
the civil defense budget is spent to protect every single person, every person,
there's a nation, I'm not sure which one at the moment, it could be Sweden or Scandinavia,
Norway, forgive me for having forgotten. And I may not have even, it may be a country I didn't
mention, but one of the one of the nations near those has a civil defense plan. It's
astonishing, every person has a shelter in their house, and they go to each other's houses and
shelter with each other all the time, so that really, and they have like hospitals built inside
mountains, right, it's all hidden, you can't see any of it on the outside, but the whole culture
has incredible resources so that if anything ever happened at all, anything, not only would everyone
be protected, but everyone could protect each other and would because they practiced doing that all
the time. So they have a compass, and the compass is each other, it's not a fiction. And if their
government were to become tyrannical, they wouldn't have a chance against their people.
Now I wouldn't even have the opportunity to try to hurt them, they're so strong and so unified,
but if their government went haywire in any way, the government would have a very, very difficult
time imposing any kind of tyrannical authority on these people at all under any conditions.
They are independent because they are interdependent, and without that interdependence, they can't be
independent, they're just isolated. And under those cities, you're going to find,
of many cases, older cities buried where they did the same thing and it didn't work,
and it wiped them out. In every case, it wiped them out. And it took a lot of nature and other
living beings with them because these cities, they need slaves, man.
And you know where they get them? From the people who aren't in the cities.
They get them from the people on the land, especially a long time ago, so they would just
go capture whole tribes of people and enslave them to build pyramids and amphitheaters and things,
huge statues. And they'd enslave these people for hundreds of years and every once in a while,
they'd escape and write a skybook, like for example, the Jews did.
So you can see that the whole amphitheater thing becomes an inward construct in our psyches.
We build an amphitheater of dead critics and imaginary authorities that don't exist at all,
they're all fictions. And then trying to understand ourselves or orient ourselves inside an amphitheater
where all from above were being constantly crushed and misdirected and laughed at and
criticized and lied about and lied at and declared to, which begins in childhood,
with the shadow that is probably our first encounter of the shadow,
our first encounter with the shadow of culture, which often is going to happen in our parents
and siblings first. It's going to happen real close to home before we get a taste of the
actual complexity and impossible threatening danger of what we presently call culture and
our relationships with language, knowledge, identity and intelligence. And nowhere will we
be given any authentic orienteering hope. We're going to have to preserve it almost alone if we're
going to have any or invent it, which is of course what we're going to have to do now together.
But for most of us, we just establish a really terrifying amphitheater of critics and
for some of us, life becomes nothing but that. Critics and judges. And then, you know,
we can see ourselves directing this at others. I can certainly see this in myself.
But there's a different kind of amphitheater that you can make. You can make an amphitheater like
the old one inside yourself. You can replace the crappy courtroom of the endless concentric rings
of deadly and pernicious, nonsensical, grumpy, lying, analytical authorities
with the living compass of your heart and true relationships with yourself, your dreams,
being alive, consciousness, intelligence, learning, growth, development. What's going on here behind
and underneath all these overlays is so terrifyingly beautiful. We're actually afraid to get a taste of
it and would prefer, for example, orgasm or a psychedelic experience, thank you.
But that's because if we were to get a taste of it, especially together,
it would be so provocatively, unremittingly exciting and beautiful
that our relationships with language and identity, knowledge and culture, wouldn't be able to survive
it very long, even if we were still within them. And we can do that now, together, just by understanding
some of the features of how our relationships with representations, ideas, figures in our minds,
language, thought, rules, authority are confused and reorienting together.
We can learn what it means to inhabit the circle, rather than be subject to it, or invented by it.
And we can learn what it means to inhabit and have meaningful roles and agency in intelligent
unities, rather than duplicitously toxic fictions. I know it sounds almost impossible or shocking or
like, if they could have done this before they would have. No, it's not true and many did and died.
Beautifully doing this. We've remembered some tiny portion of them, but most of them are
traceless in history. And that's, in some sense, more beautiful than if we remembered them and more
true. They live in the spirit of possibility, unspoken in language or form, unframed in
representation. They live in the promise of our human birth, an actual orientation in
relationships with nature, which are beyond anything science or religion has dared to suggest.
So the promise is of a frontier of our humanity that's been buried, a frontier of human potential
and intelligence that's getting buried in new ways and new dimensions. It's inventing new ways
to bury itself each moment. And we can become subject to this or we can become human, alive.
We can make the living compass inside us and we can replace the amphitheater with the history of
life on earth. The history of life on earth is with us and singing with our own mouths,
moving with our own legs and hands. The history of all the people, all their dreams,
all the mothers, all the fathers, every child that was ever born is alive in you right now listening.
The history of time space, all the beings, the sky, origin itself, the stars, the sun, the moon is
watching. In that bird you hear in the background, we're touching the origins of life on earth this
instant. It's not enough to think about relationships or time or light or physics.
It's not enough to make frameworks that tell us what intelligence looks like
because any such framework is immediately self-conflicting.
Above all frameworks with and for each other, learning and growing, discovering what it means
to be and become human together, inventing it, improvising it, beautifully, truly for purposes
that matter, that are in our hearts and in nature, will become a compass.
We can't live without it and the substitutes don't work.
When we disappear into a pure relation for a beautiful purpose, such as learning or seeing
and discovery or solving a deadly problem together, then we begin to discover what it means to be
individuals because only then are we surrounded and contexted, encompassed by and feeling viscerally
alive and real and not made of thoughts and ideas and functions.
The spirit of our birth is heroic by nature. It wants to be true and amazing and noble and human,
intelligent, articulate, skillful, creative, playful. It's desperate for a context in which
to authentically personate, to be born. Instead we have a kind of fake shelf self that we wear
around that is mostly the armor that allows us to survive contact with the constructs and some
kind of whatever inner amphitheaters we may or may not have assembled.
So I'd like to think of this as an invitation to remember and discover other ways that are older
and true or compasses that work and minds that are oriented in relation and nature and intelligence
and learning rather than in declaration tyranny, compression, depersonalization and which are
themselves depersonating which then require we impersonate something since we've been
depersonated in the hell. So we can't live this way and I'd like to think of this as an invitation
which I hear in the song of the burdened background. To personally and communally rediscover
a human art of orienteering together in life, in language, in the constructs and everything we do
and to bring some living spirit back into the center of that ring and back into its constituents
and to dismiss the fictional authorities, to dismiss them from our inner theater
where often to ourselves we play as some aspect of our minds plays as if to an audience and receives
its suggestions or praise or criticisms or derision, joyful laughter or cruel laughter.
I'd like to dismiss all those fictional authorities and judges and inner senses
and clear the amphitheater. Let's put something beautiful and true there that we trust together.
Let's learn how now. Perhaps today we've made a beginning, tomorrow we shall go four times further
and the day after that forty and so on and so forth and so far.
