So, I'm thinking a lot lately, reflecting on the nature of memory.
What memory is or might be like and how our common ideas about it are very confusing and
often crippling.
The Greeks, we don't know what they thought.
We often hear the Greeks said this, the Greeks thought this, they believed that and this
and that.
Since we don't have their minds with us, we don't know how they thought and their world,
they lived in their minds must have been quite different from ours.
For all that it was still human, alive and natural, the frameworks with which they saw
the world and the mind they brought to reality, it seems was a very different thing from ours.
But we have records and what we can imagine of them.
Are these records memory?
Well, not really.
Because they can give us their words, but they cannot give us the living sense of their
minds or the living sense of their language in those minds.
They cannot give us, for example, their immediate sense of what it was they saw when they looked
at the sky in the daytime or at night.
They did not see space, they did not see stars, they did not see planets.
These are ideas we have.
What did they see?
But from their records and their lineages of beings we call gods, and perhaps they called
something like gods, but maybe did not mean what we imagine by this work.
The mother of the arts, all of them of rhetoric, language, thought, everything, music, mathematics
was memory.
And if we understand the pronunciation correctly, then the word they used to refer to this mother
was nemosony.
And from this various other similar things come.
The idea of a meme is related to this word, but so to the idea of a mother.
Nemosony was part of their understanding of what a mother was, and particularly the source
of mind, the mother of minds.
So for them nemosony was not a mind or a way of seeing, but the being, the body of being
that is the possibility of all seeing, and this is not recording.
This has nothing to do with recording.
Memories is alive, like our own minds, like our dreaming, like our hearts, like our souls.
Memory is not a recording, the fact that our experience of it may bear some likeness with
this technology that we have acquired, physical technologies, does not make the two equivalent
in any way.
Memory is the source of something, of the same order as whatever its produce may be.
And this is a very serious problem for humans with language, because language allows us
to mistakenly equate the source with its product, thus people can think, for example, that brains
are like computers, but they are not.
There is no living computer.
Brains are not assembled of parts, by humans, with minds, for the purpose of computation.
That's what computers are, they are devices, dead objects, assembled by humans for functions.
Now even these same humans will tell you, scientifically oriented humans, for example,
that nature doesn't have a purpose, which means, must mean, if they are meaning what
they say, if they are telling the truth, we must suspect they are trying to, that living
things don't have purposes, let's presume they're right, because if they did, it would
be like nemosity being the product of her potential, one of the products of her potential
rather than her potential.
In other words, beings are purposive, but machines are made by purposive beings for
purposes, those cannot be like their minds, or like their memories.
The fact that you can write something down in a book is not like your memory.
Your memory is an experiential manifold, it doesn't really have contents in the way that
we imagine, because you must approach the manifold and constalate it to produce meaningful
results.
A living mind must approach the manifold and constalate it to produce living results,
and every time a living mind constalates that manifold, it will be unique.
That's not a recording, that's more like active dreaming.
That's like a form of dreaming where you constalate the manifold for purposes.
We often forget that we do this, we're not trained to see that we do this, therefore
we're largely unaware of it, but this is what happens every time we go to memory, and the
waking mind's constellation modes are very different from the other aspects of mind,
whatever we may call them, the subconscious mind, the dreaming mind, and so on.
So, memory is not a recording, it's a living manifold, which is like a cloud of many elements
that always comprise a unity, yet can be approached in such a way that appearing distinct, we
constalate these unities, we produce little patterns within them of relation, and usually
in the center of this pattern there's a kind of a star, a central figure that is partly
purpose, partly desire, and around the central figure we constalate many other connotations,
things that relate to it, and then we have the experience of its meaning, and its feeling
sense, not only to our thinking minds, but to our hearts, to our emotional selves, to
our inner self-world, for lack of a better word, to our inner experience.
So memory is really quite fascinating, and it's not like a recording, and because it's
not we're very confused when we speak of it and think about it, if we could learn to think
about it in ways that are more like its actual nature, this will dramatically restore our
potential relationship with each other, with our own minds, with nature, and it's very
specifically with the possibilities of our human intelligence.
When we're dreaming, we're experiencing something like the living pulse of memory.
This is the mind free of its waking constraints on identity, meaning, purpose, value, and
so on, yet still true in its roots of being.
A long time ago, perhaps in the 1900s, Jules Verne, a famous early science fiction author,
wrote a book that had a profound effect on me as a child called Twenty Thousand Leagues
Under the Sea, and the hero of this book is an articulate biofile, an auto-deduct scientist
and inventor whose name is Captain Nemo, and Captain Nemo has a submarine named the Nautilus.
The Nautilus is of course a spiral shelled cephalopod, perhaps one of the progenitors
of creatures like the cuttlefish and the squid.
And from a remote island where he had a laboratory and a base station, he launched his Nautilus
and attacked the human ships on the ocean.
He saw that they were using technology to make war, and that this would wipe out life,
and thus the very garden from which memory is born.
He is Nemo's protector.
He is the male avatar of Nemo's memory, the ocean.
And just as we, as living beings, have memory, the ecologies of our world were the living
memories of the entire history of life on Earth, forests and the oceans.
And from these gardens, the very possibility of our bodies and minds is born, moment to
moment.
In a mere cause-effect relationship, this is fundamentally and before all ideas a unity
our world, and the life that has been here, and the life that we have allowed to remain
in whatever state of desperate attempts to cope with the repercussions of human thought
and technology, with whatever living places remain from that battle.
I guess Nemo saw that we weren't intent merely on making war against each other, but that
fundamentally we were intent upon using machines to rip the fabric of life and intelligence
on Earth to shreds, and then with the remains of that make war upon each other.
And I cannot say what was in the mind of Captain Nemo, a fictional character, but I can say
what lives in the Captain Nemo like being inside all of us, and that is a true respect
for the nature of living beings on Earth and their relationships, their unity, their profound
inexpressible intelligence, and the difference between that and what we think, tell ourselves
do, and what we agree to as purposes for which we will come together and work.
But memory is so much more, because memory is the circle of all the lives that have come
before us, and our position in that constellation, that living constellation, and that position
is true and real, it's not imaginary, it's not a fiction of structured thought.
Sometimes it seems to me as if any person that I may see or any organism at all, a bird,
but particularly someone that I know or myself, I see them in the center of a vast, the opposite
of the world. Imagine all the history of life on Earth as a world that's on the inside
of a sphere. And I might sit at the center of the sphere with my immediate ancestors
around me, and then all of the ancestors in rings all around me, seeing and being with
my body and mind. So I might imagine myself sitting in the circle of all mothers, all
the human mothers, all the animal mothers, all the vegetal mothers, the ecosystemic
mothers, the mothers of minds, where our minds come from. And seeing in their eyes and knowing
in some entirely nonverbal way a true sense of their dream, their soul, their suffering,
their lives, their adoration for each other and for the children, all of the living things
that have dwelt or hope or dwell here. And in this kind of memory, seeing in their eyes
feeling in my heart the nature of this bond and its true imperatives, I am having an experience
of memory that has nothing to do with recordings and seems more true than any recording that
could be produced. Memory is alive and unlike recording, we are alive. We do not record
things. Unfortunately, we become very confused when we invent technologies and become fascinated
by them. Their profound usefulness inclines us to liken ourselves to them. It was once
thought that the heart was a boiler and so fevers to solve them, you would just reduce
the blood since the pump was boiling over. You'd bleed people when they were having fevers.
Because we invented boilers, right? And having invented boilers, we then imagine we had them
inside us and treated the bodies if that were so. We're still doing the same exact very
ridiculous thing with our thoughts about the brain being a computer and memory being recordings.
They are not recordings. The brain is nothing like a machine or a computer at all. They're
completely different orders of phenomenon. The source cannot be of the same order as one of
its products, especially, nor even of all of them. Thus, no one can tell you what your
intelligence is because telling people what things is is a product of that intelligence.
It's a collapsed order. It's a much flatter order. It's the difference between a blurry
photograph of my face and being my face, being me. That's an impossible gulf to cross. Those
two things will never be equivalent. So I want you to realize that your memory isn't recording and
your mind isn't a computer. It constellates unities from manifolds. It is itself a unity and it
constellates unities from manifolds. Memory is a living manifold of some form. A cloud of myriad
elements that come together under the ages of a living mind and form and reform and transform
and inform. They are not recordings. Thus, it is that if someone tells you a memory of an event,
if they tell you in language, what you have is a product of the linguistic mind.
You don't have the event. You don't have a true record of it. If I could tell you a dream,
we'd both have to start dreaming, but that wouldn't be the dream. Even if we'd managed that,
that wouldn't be the dream I was trying to tell. That would be a new experience we were having
together. In this way, you can see what we tell of dreams, by the way, is not the dream. It is the
waking mind's remnant recording-like structured thing with which it tries to grasp the dream,
but that is not the dream. If it were, it would have the same other worldly intensity of intimacy
that is the hallmark of nearly every moment of dreaming experience and an intimacy for which
we hunger and thirst in our waking lives, for which we will accept every poorly composed substitute
and every self-aggrandizing replacement. When we tell the dream, we do not feel this.
We are not telling the dream. We are telling the skeletal translation of the waking verbal
mind's description of the dream. Not that this is not useful or in its own way powerful,
but we should recognize that thing, that record in our mind that we think is a recording,
or is like one, isn't.
Before I wind down, I want to leave you with a question. What has been memory like? In order
to understand things, we metify them, we analogize them, we make metaphors and comparisons, and we
say, oh, it's like this I understand. Juice is like sweetened water from inside a tree. It's
it's it's sweet water in tree from trees, plants. So, oh, I know what juice is and I have blood. It's
like my juice. It's the living juice inside my body. And it's actually alive. It's comprised of
living things in living chemistry, at least while I'm alive. So, what is memory like?
Good luck. I wish you well in this task.
It is not like a recording. And here's the really difficult part. This is why a source cannot be
like its product, cannot be the same order of existence or identity as one of its products.
Here's why. Without memory, there is no likeness.
So, what is that with which without it there is no likeness like?
It's not like anything you can think. Because thinking is a constellating memory.
To understand the nature of memory, perhaps we must precede the Greeks and go back to the
experiences from whence they and other ancient peoples, and we ourselves as modern peoples,
were peculiarly situated to discover in direct personal exploration and recognition.
What these words we use with such clumsy urgency might actually refer to.
And what we will discover is nothing like what I can tell you. I've certainly had
a taste or three of this direct relation and discovery.
But it's beyond all of the ideas of science and human religion. And it's true. It is the nature
of reality. Without saying anything about what that's like, good luck. Don't, please don't.
It's not like things you can think. The nature of our minds and our memories, our hearts, our
souls, the nature of living beings of life on earth, is directly accessible to human beings.
For is there own nature? No other. But it is not the nature of our language,
or ideas, or concepts, any of them. No religion will deliver it to you. No science will explicate
or dismiss it. What is memory like? Well, she's like a mother you've forgotten,
who to know you must meet in person. Fascinatingly, we have this living door,
not just in every waking moment. But whether or not we can find our way there,
we have it at night when we dream. And this living door is memories, kiss, and caress.
It is the birthplace of all of the other toys we play with. What is memory like?
Hard to find something you could look at and say memory is not like it for it comes from memory.
Without her there is no likeness, for there is no stage upon which to compare nor position
from whence one might do so. What is memory?
Let's find out together. I want to go to the place where Nemosini lives,
with and for each other, in purposes noble and true. Perhaps we can go together, shall we?
