because he would want to see like what happened in him, you know, himself,
first person, he's a guy. But maybe she even just communicated it to him. And then
they had the sticky poison that was intelligent separation that would later
become formal language, and then writing and knowledge and then authorities who
were false based on arguments rather than living, based on ideas or concepts
rather than forests, based on money, rather than oceans, based on false power
instead of the value of intimacy and relation that requires honesty and trust
just to happen. Instead of that, we can just pay each other now. We're very
confused. We have representation spawning everywhere. Madly photographs, we're
competing with photographs. Directly. That's death. Photographs live. They
know where there are photographs where they're worth millions of dollars.
There are stacks of them. They could save whole nations of people in a week. But
they don't. Those people die. Photographs live nice and warm in their
houses. Our cars, representations, we compete with them. That's death. But the
other thing about death is that it's knowledge. Now back with this tree where
we got that knowledge, something really strange happened. They tried to hide
their sexual organs, their organs of intimacy, the organs of relational
intimacy that make wave intimacy. They hid those with a leaf. I have a very
special tree, the fig tree. Interestingly enough, it has microscopic flowers. You
can't see its sexual organs. So they hid their organ with the representation,
because now they're representational. Now they make representations of things and
compare them and stuff and make false evaluations that can't exist, except in
fictional minds, like the hypothetical millions of minds inside the snake at
the tree, which is the structure of unity. But also it's opposite. And if you
bend back what you see on the structure of unity, it shatters. Now, if you can
ride that shattering intelligently, you get impossible intelligence. If you
can't, you get schizophrenia and psychosis, hallucination, drug experience. It
looks like intelligence, but it doesn't act like it. And it doesn't save
worlds. The other prodigy that saves worlds, everyone recognizes it. Einstein,
Goodell, Rumi, I'm naming men, Jonah, I mean, Hypatia of Alexandria, Susan B
Anthony. If you can, if you can start, if you can take it and really that
force, that shattering force of death intelligence, right, and shape it's where
it breaks and how those breaks relate intelligently, based on relation, not
just concepts, not just math or statistics on relationships that are real and
alive, like we're doing here now. Because I have no script. I don't even know
what I'm doing. I'm trying to explore this with you as you for me and us
together. So back at this tree, something weird happened. Something crazy that we
still act out, which is this. We realized we're going to be sexually
surveilled. And so the women began to wear makeup. And the fig leaf was their
first makeup. And that meant that was their badge of submission to sexual
surveillance from now on and to be sexual objects in every moment, even in the
bathroom, even in the wherever they are, they have to have the makeup on, so to
speak, they have to be beautiful, so to speak, they have to be presentable as an
object. And their makeup is the badge of acceptance of that which I renounce and
reject. Utterly, it's a false representation that that crushes the
feminine intelligence in the man and the woman. I just reject it. I'm not saying
it's evil, or even necessarily, I'm not saying anything about it except it's not
human. And it's a sign that we've accepted a false standard of surveillance from
above that doesn't exist. It's not real. If we got rid of that, we would all be
living in a better world. Similarly, men, they wear the tie for the same reason.
It's actually a representation of the penis. And they're saying, I am the
penis. I am rigid. I penetrate. It's a big confused mess. It's all wrong. The man
doesn't dominate. In fact, the man is wielded by the woman's innocence and
beauty. And he's wielded so intelligently that when they bend back upon
each other, they produce prodigy, not war. Incredible intelligence, not
decimation. Decimation. That's unintelligent shattering. Yeah. So when we go back
to the tree, we find out how we learn to surveil ourselves. Now we have two
options, we can surveil ourselves in relationally in excellence in love, or
we can surveil ourselves prosecutorially in law, right, out of fear, which
shatters intelligence and shatters unity. So if we if we build surveillance
systems that make us feel like the parent is cruel, and there's millions of
possible judges, they're all judging us with every possible angle of approach
to our thought, speech, hopes, desires, actions, urges, we will become
psychotic. If we surround ourselves with brilliant minds who are encouraging
and loving and lift us up and want us to rise to our highest potentials and
actually inspire and keep reminding and lifting and encouraging and cheering
us on as is our actual nature with and for each other. The tree produces
prodigy and the gate in the garden opens up literally religion or no, we get
transcendent wonder, we get ecological relational intelligence, we get
relational intelligence with each other. The story in the Bible was not meant to
tell us what was stolen. It was written by healers for their own children. They
hid it in a code that would discourage people who would try to weaponize it and
use it for their own gain, but they left it in a mode that people who were
loving and playful enough could learn to understand and decode for each other so
that it would return our wings and unlock the angel with the spinning sword who
guards the gate at the garden. That spinning sword is our own intelligence. And
if we speak the password, which is each other's names, it opens. And what was
shock, terror, fear, blame, complaint, law, court cases, judges, prisons? Will it
become something we've never seen but we've always dreamed of and that we've
glimpsed in nature? Things we have names for but have never tasted, except but in
their opposites. Mercy, justice, wonder, beauty, truth, liberation, music, reverence,
adoration, fellowship, communion. Share this. Let's take off the makeup and the
ties and learn the rest of these interesting angles on these old stories
that seem to have everyone fighting when we could be waving together instead.
Thank you. I'll see you soon. Please share this with anyone who you think might enjoy it.
Goodbye for now.
