Hello everybody. Welcome.
So, I haven't actually read press releases or heard
officials making declarations or, you know, looked in on Sean Kirkpatrick, the director of the
AARO, All Anomaly Resolution Office, and I think there might be a towering irony here,
and probably 17 of them. I don't know precisely how I could insult Kirkpatrick to the degree
that I feel he has earned a good slapping about. So, I'll play the gentleman and not just invent
wild denigrations of his acumen character and activities since he's been director of the AARO.
Now, in case all of this sounds Greek to you, I'm talking about the fact that a day or two ago,
perhaps now, the Pentagon boldly declared that there's no evidence of UFOs, effectively saying once again,
in code, right, it's as if they're speaking in an encryption form that only they understand,
because certainly the people in the bowels of the military intelligence complex, these almost certainly all men.
If there's one female in there, I'll be shocked, and I won't precisely declare what I think that means,
but one thing it means is late at night we smoke cigars together, exchange favors and promote each other's children
into the conspiracy of wealth, power, where the actual humans, everyone else's little people,
the police and the military have included in the scope of their power the capacity to kill,
imprison, arrest or redirect all other humans. It doesn't matter where you're from, who you are,
unless you are so thick with criminals, narcissists, ideologues, the really profound...
The richest scum of the sewer of those who defect from everything that is good, beautiful, true and potentially world-rescuing about humans.
And it's not surprising that you find them literally wearing the labels of the people who are supposed to be the world rescuers first,
not if we have a fight you'll lose. The place you want your most intelligent, sensitive, aware, educated people is the place infested
with what I've heard others refer to as trough pigs, and in the words of Black Sabbath circa 1970 something early, war pigs.
Those who fatten themselves on the blood of the taxpayers, not sure exactly what the budget is there, but there's nothing that gets a budget like that, literally nothing.
There's nothing that even compares to it.
You know, the Pentagon's off in there.
The Pentagon undergoes an analysis, probably yearly, in which they scramble to attempt to account for the billions of dollars.
And they're usually off by, you know, 65, 70, something like this, meaning something like 65% of their assets are unaccounted for.
But they want to tell us, once again, in 2024, that you have foes or nonsense. Whatever the hell is going on there?
The part of it that's nonsense is mostly the part of it they themselves probably invented in order to muck up the waters and tell human beings an array of blatant lies,
including such gems as a post-scarcity world was on offer to us previously.
We chose war oil and gas because it wasn't we doing the choosing.
It was the seething mass of criminals, you know, in the cancerous heart of the military industrial prison information complex.
And maybe now it's identity complex too.
The chances that there's nothing to the idea of anomalous objects in the sky, many of which clearly are inhabited in some sense of the word,
and not merely by, you know, something, some figment produced by Hollywood to scare or entertain us.
And by the way, what is it that entertains us? One of the greatest urgencies that human beings who exist on earth experience is the urgency to know,
one, are there other beings like us that have minds like us? Or two, do we belong to a family we've never been introduced to?
And that second thing is absolutely certain, but must be extended to the sky.
The earth centric, right, we think from earth as, you know, we're still thinking as if the universe orbits the earth.
We're just doing it in terms of values and creative understanding.
It's not very creative, but it's imaginal understanding of priority.
And we think, oh no, earth's the only place, since we don't know for a fact, which isn't true, that there's life in space, or beyond space, in an in-between sort of place.
A-A-R-O, right? Think about how that encrypted little abbreviation unfolds into the all-domain way. Is that it?
Yeah, I think it's all-domain anomaly resolution office.
The reason I think there might be a towering irony there, in fact I'm quite certain there is, is that the number of actual anomalies resolved by that office continues to approach zero more aggressively with every hour that passes.
The existence of that office is itself an anomaly, but I think there's an even weirder thing going on, which is that the government and certain private sector industrial corporations, technological corporations,
are probably aware that since around, this is a very dangerous thing to say, this might be one of the most dangerous things I've ever said,
sometime around 2018, and some organizations of humans may know something about why, anomalies in general skyrocketed, and they kept doing so.
A possibly trivial example, and I'm sure someone will be able to tell me just why this might be, there was about a six-month period during the pandemic,
in which screaming children. There was a six-month period during the pandemic when something very strange happened for me, which was, I bought over a period of a few months a few cartons of eggs.
I think I had seen perhaps a single double-yoked egg in my entire life prior to that. These three cartons of eggs with maybe two exceptions all had double yolks.
Now, I'm sure there's some egg farmers out there that can help me understand this, in a real way. These were young hands, or someone was making a mistake.
Some sort of biological farming mistake with the hands. But I certainly saw that as an anomalous. Imagine if one day you woke up, and about every 35 steps you found 50 bucks.
I mean, I think, especially if that continued for any period of time, you'd realize like something has gone really sideways here.
And all of us can probably remember lots of situations where, how to put this, a little program we had run effortlessly previously,
now required a great deal of effort, a little behavioral program, for example, let's say paying the rent, or paying the bills, we'll expand it a bit.
Something that would normally just go fine doesn't work. At some step in the process that you've repeated successfully 7,000 times in the past, it just fails.
Lots of things that were normal to our experience suddenly became disturbed, and I'm arguing that they began doing that before COVID.
At least before COVID was announced, and not, not insignificantly, like more than a year.
And probably they'd been doing it in sprinkles before then. It often, the air gets a little misty sometimes before it actually rains.
And the all-domain anomaly resolution office is completely unaware of this, this fact. Or worse, and this is the dangerous part of the idea, they're covertly aware of it.
And their mandate isn't to resolve anomalies at all, rather it is to resolve concerns that anomalies exist.
Yeah, I think Aero, as it is dumbfoundingly called, what they mean by resolution.
It resembles what, you know, previous deadly idiots have used language to say.
And like work makes free, for example.
Aero and Mr. Kropatrik are blatantly lying about things we have seen, we have experienced, we have known as human beings.
In the same way, if I had some ideological or hegemoniacal concern about a symbolic problem with apples,
such that I, you know, wandered around writing papers about the non-existence of apples.
It's not that dissimilar. We're talking for thousands of years, millions of human beings have had direct experience of objects in the sky that weren't made by humans,
doing things that imply they are intelligent, landing on the ground, talking to the people.
In some cases abducting them, quote unquote, though let's be clear that there's, you know, segments of all of these phenomenon.
The fact that there are segments that might be mostly psychological or psychobiological does not entitle anyone
to expand the segment to everything, which is specifically the mandate of the AARO, apparently.
But yeah, if somebody just got up and pretended no one has seen any apples, and this has happened.
It just happens with stuff a little less obvious than apples.
And there's lots of ways to attack it, right?
If I want to convince you that there is not now, nor has there ever been,
anything apple-ish going on.
There are no apples.
I can go at it with, you know, ridiculous rhetorical falsies.
I have been walking now outside in the everyday day.
I'm awake. I am sober.
I haven't seen one apple.
There are no apples here.
And some will argue back, well, people have them in their technique bags and such in the park.
And you could then sort of just shift the venue.
Well, we're using the wrong language.
What they have in their bags is food of various kinds, but there are no apples among that food,
because that word actually refers to something that doesn't exist.
In other words, we have complex language about non-existent things,
and that's the problem here.
All of this concern is about something we have no knowledge of.
And, you know, if you say you have no knowledge of it,
that doesn't mean you're not in possession of downed craft, alien bodies, right?
Reams or whole libraries of intelligence on the topic.
The results of many years of study by, you know, dedicated technologists within the military
and contracted by them.
You can be doing all of that and still say we have no knowledge of it.
All you have to do is make a department that has no knowledge
and then put them in charge of talking about it, right?
There's no complex trick to that.
Any department can have no knowledge.
You can instantly create departments with no knowledge of Vietnam.
I mean, we have no direct experience of anything.
None of us have any experience related to that.
I think the real irony is that something very strange is going on,
not just in the sky and not merely in our minds.
The fact that some small portion of UFO phenomena,
even if we say 30%, which I think is a dramatic exaggeration,
everything but 30%.
I think AARRO is saying we have prosaic explanations.
We have prosaic explanations for 98.3% of the reports we've received
and the other reports.
The only reason we don't have a prosaic explanation is that there's not enough data.
We don't have enough data to exclude it.
But that's what we do. We exclude reports. That's their job.
So I guarantee you that the humans use data in very surprising ways.
Let me guarantee you that.
You can surely be guaranteed of.
The number of tests that were actually run to determine the potential for doing harm to our species
of the vaccines against COVID that were done is very small.
We don't have the data and in that case we pretend we do.
In the case of UFOs, we absolutely have the data and we do two different things.
We pretend we don't have it, which, you know,
maybe the Pentagon is taking a play from Big Pharma's propaganda apparatus.
Maybe they're cribbing a play there because it's the same play.
We know that, you know, 27% of the mice developed heart disease
or had nervous system wreck, you know, completely.
The nervous system falls apart.
Another 12% had strokes.
So we just sort of smear around that data and release the product for millions of humans anyway.
I don't care what anyone says.
Actual science, medical science takes years to run and has large, diverse, complex cohorts and controls.
None of that was done, but it was announced that the vaccines are safe.
I mean, as far as I'm concerned, it's like giving everyone, yeah.
I mean, it's such a ridiculous idea.
It'd be like start out by giving 70,000 people a handgun.
Do it all at once at the same time.
Make sure 68% of those guns are loaded with one bullet.
And you get various numbers of bullets down to or up to all bullets, right?
The whole thing is fully loaded with a revolver, something like 48% of the people.
And then cock the hammer, right, so that it's ready to hair trigger fire.
Hand those out to people and tell them it's safe.
You know, physical objects don't just do things by themselves.
So as long as, you know, that puts the burden on the people, they have to be intelligent.
In this case, it's random chance that determines which triggers get pulled and where the gun is pointing.
And we've been told something that is completely batshit insanely wrong,
which is that a medical technology previously used only on people who were in danger of immediately dying.
As far as I know, correct me if I'm wrong on that one.
The mRNA tech was directed at hundreds of millions of people and in many cases mandated.
Yeah, not safe. By the way, Mr. Kirkpatrick, please resolve that anomaly for us.
Because there's an anomaly. I think the mallard couple is really cute. They haven't watched them having sex.
There's nothing cute about that. Mallards are vicious around mating, at least the ones I've seen.
Yeah, the male effectively attempts to drown the female, at least in many cases.
But there's nothing to see here. Ducks don't actually have sex. I haven't seen any ducks having sex, have you?
So, yeah, I guess the Pentagon, in response to a number of recent congressional hearings on the matter,
whistleblowers from within the government, deep within the government, in the military.
A colonel with a spotless record and top security clearance came forward and said,
the government has long been in possession of partial and whole vehicles, bodies, biological material, technologies, intelligence,
and has been reverse engineering what they think is non-human tech.
And that this has been going on for something like 70 years. I could expand that description dramatically,
but I'll leave it there to keep it simple.
Sworn testimony from ace fighter pilots about stuff they've seen, tracked, and recorded, but there's no evidence of UFOs.
We've been shown evidence recently, although the type of situation was an example of one of the commonly seen types, or two.
If you survey pilots, you'll find that many of them have never seen anything.
Some portion of them have seen things from the ground, and some portion, perhaps, depending on how much airtime they have,
and also something we call luck. Maybe 8 to 12% of them will report having encountered something,
and a smaller percentage will report obviously intelligent interactions.
There are literally, there are probably hundreds or close to a thousand people alive today who have been present and spoken about what happened when
the government of some nation, and particularly the United States,
recovered something that fell out of the sky. Oh, it's a stork.
Or is it a kingfisher?
Yeah, there have been many reports of people who either saw something come down or discovered something.
Many of those reports include descriptions of bodies and or still conscious other beings.
Maybe that's the right way to refer to them, because it's not entirely clear whether they're alive or not.
Two storks. That's crazy. Are those storks or kingfishers?
They're both really sleepy.
As you can see, there's no evidence that I saw anything.
I'm here looking. I could take a picture. That wouldn't count as evidence. Reports don't count as evidence.
The themes of F.O.I.D., declassified material, often highly redacted, nevertheless clear in its implications and statements.
A stack of reports that would probably reach to the top of the tallest building on Earth does not constitute evidence for the Pentagon.
There are so many problems here. The first thing is the topic that would be classified above biotech, the possible weaponizations of biotech, and actual weaponizations of nuclear energy.
Which, by the way, is the dumbest thing you could weaponize. If you have a species that weaponizes that, you can cross them off your list.
They either have a near miss and turn around, which it appears we tried to do.
I've at least heard noises lately, not sure where they're from, though I heard intelligible noises of this kind.
Most of my listeners are probably too young to know what actually happened unless they carefully examined the films and books and so forth about it.
There was an event, which is usually in America referred to as the Cuban Missile Crisis.
By the time the propagandists actually allow you to use the word crisis, in this case, you'd better fucking believe there was one.
What they actually mean by the Cuban Missile Crisis is fingers were on the switches in the Soviet Union and the United States.
The missiles were armed, launch ready, and the trigger was half fucking pulled.
We nearly bought the farm as a modern species on a specific day, you know, over a specific array of incidents.
And what I heard recently, which I find fascinating and likely to be true, is that that event so deeply traumatized and terrified
John F. Kennedy and Khrushchev, who was the then Premier of the Soviet Union.
It ruined them.
And so they began to have private communications.
And in the private communications, they agreed together to disarm the nuclear arsenals.
I don't know if they agreed that they were going to get rid of the missiles altogether, but they certainly agreed to disarm them.
Because they realized that we can't go through this twice.
This is one of those things like crossing the street.
You get one chance to do it right.
Rather, this is more like trying to cross the freeway.
