And pissed off individuals and possibly religious fanatics are really interested in pulling that switch.
And we have nothing to compete against. There's nothing impeding that.
We have fully developed war and tech. We have completely failed to develop human communication, cooperation, intimacy, awareness, intelligence.
There's nothing intelligent about the way our species acts at the group level.
Organized, yes, intelligent, no. So we've got to go after that problem somehow.
And even if we can't fix it at the scale of the world, we have to train each other to begin to form coherent, communal intelligences.
This is the future of our species if we have one.
There's no evidence.
In another talk, I told the story of an engineer who went to a company that was researching technologies that would, for example, possibly be useful in producing any gravity.
Or we could positively call it levitation.
And what was his name? I wonder if I can remember.
I can't remember certainly enough, so I won't make a guess.
I listened to an interview with him probably from the 70s, a few weeks ago.
He said they were burning up capacitors, like $400 capacitors, 40, 50 of them a day in this experiment.
And he went home and cobbled together. He was sort of a closet garage tech.
I was interested in questions about electromagnetism, frequency, plasma, so forth.
This is the stuff that physics would be unlocking if they weren't captured by string theory.
And by the way, I think string theory would be an excellent plot to ensure that humans didn't get off planet.
And Eric thinks of it this way, too.
String theory could be what kills us.
Because if we can't get off planet, we're going to die. We're going to be dead here momentarily.
There's no way we can survive the game-theoretic bullshit we've set up.
So if we can't get off planet, all of us are going to die.
Whereas if we can get off planet, at least some of us will survive the game-theoretical snuffing that happens here on Earth.
And he's not wrong, but he's not right either, because you can't let humans, as they exist at present, infect space-time.
They will build machines that build machines.
And if that's not snuffed immediately, that becomes a war universe, a dead universe.
That stuff can spread exponentially fast, particularly if it's possible to instantaneously travel between stars, which I presume it probably is.
Oh, that's against the laws of physics now. It's against the current state of human knowledge of physics.
Which, let's face it, is fucking preschool, because we've only had physics for something like a few hundred years or something, right?
So whenever I hear someone say, what's against the laws of physics?
There's nothing to-let's people have zero understanding of laws or physics.
There's not even-it's an irrelevant statement of moronic ignorance.
Bad, bad ignorance. It's against the laws of physics.
They forget that science is like a few hundred years old. At least modern science is.
I've become concerned with a specific problem in human cognition, which is it's possible to produce processes in human culture and in societies such as ours, right?
Modern circa our time society that attack foundational features of our biology, cognition, relational behavior, and they essentially feed on them.
They consume resources. Something similar happens in us as children when we acquire language.
The process of in-languaging invents assets in our nervous systems, in our brains, and structures other assets in such a way that it deprives us of something fundamental that we see is still alive in children.
Playing creativity, imagination, not taking themselves too seriously, so forth.
And you can see this dying out in the eyes of children as they get older, less so in the eyes of children that are raised fairly, but catastrophically in the eyes of children that are raised in cities, for example.
This shit just goes away.
So you can attack assets that are fundamental to our humanity and you can shunt them into processes that are dead inside.
And our societies and corporations and governments and institutions are very busy doing this.
And what that means is that they are inherently attacking and replacing with representations.
Every feature of our humanity they can possibly imagine capturing.
This has now become extended to the capture of what we are calling intelligence, which isn't actually intelligence, even if it's doing what we think it's doing, which it surely isn't.
But what we have captured is the capacity to manipulate representations associated with intelligence in language.
We associate the manipulation of representations, such as language itself, with intelligence.
And we think because it's not obvious that other organisms do this, they must not be intelligent.
Yet we discover often that we are wrong about this. They are capable of doing it. They don't choose to do it.
They're also kind of not made for it, I'll agree.
It's not just that they decline. The seagull's life context probably doesn't incline it to the computation of Hamiltonians.
No fault of the seagulls. It doesn't need to build weapons or aircraft.
So the humans build these sort of behavioral and cognitive algorithms.
And they establish institutions.
What the problem is that the institutions, well, they often start out half phony,
and if they don't become almost completely phony fairly quickly, if they accomplish their mandates,
most of those will dissolve, which means that the power and money that was entrenched there
will become concentrated and crystallized into a few individuals or a very small group.
And then that group will become zombie vampires, right?
They create human zombies by giving them jobs,
and they suck the life energy out of them in return for pay.
Wherever the jobs are not brilliant and exciting and amazing, which some places they can be, at least briefly.
We have the capacity to produce coherent, amazing human intelligent behavior.
The field is dominated by hungry parasites that are aggressive hungry parasites.
And, you know, perhaps we're awaiting the birth of some kind of leader
that doesn't merely guide us into the experience of forming coherent, intelligent team-like
unities and solving lethal problems, which I think our species is totally made for this.
If anyone got this started in any reasonable way that could be self-correcting
and had sort of memetic hygiene, right, this isn't going to become a doctrine,
we're not going to form cults, we're going to actually solve problems,
including the problem of the concentration of power in minorities
and the concentration of particular forms of behavioral pathology in our institutions, right?
So that the institutions dissolve, but our integrity doesn't go with them.
So we just keep reforming institutions that are integral and then dissolving them and reforming them
so that they don't crystallize and you can't, you won't want to get the ugly stuff running, right, as protocols.
You'll give up on, we can give up on that.
It's far too expensive, there's too many of us to do that anymore.
That may change, we'll see.
Yeah, there's no evidence of UFOs, I just think that's hilarious.
The scope and context for this topic has radically altered itself
since the initial interviews and statements given by Colonel David Grush
after giving, I think, a 14-hour evidentiary presentation to the Inspector General
of, I think, the Defense Department.
And at the time the word from the Inspector General was,
this is serious, we will look into this.
Apparently they looked, saw their own shadow, shut the door and started making announcements.
You know, my own perspectives are not merely from media,
they come from direct experience of non-human intelligence
the reason why statements like those from the Pentagon are completely ridiculous
isn't merely the hundreds of thousands of witnesses over thousands of years of human time.
There are images of UFOs in the sky from hundreds of years ago,
maybe from thousands of years ago, possibly from tens of thousands of years ago.
There's no way, there's nothing, there's no there, there, impossible for that to be true.
And again, libraries of declassified documents clearly demonstrating the interest and dominance
of the American military over the topic, over at least 50 years, probably more like 70.
And of course the problem is that, there's a worse problem which is that
if you were to send, if you were to assemble from human beings, a team,
and this is probably a useful thing to do or to attempt,
if you were to assemble a team to act as the emissaries of our species to other intelligent species,
you would be insane if that team was comprised of members of the government and the military.
These would be the least likely humans to be intelligent enough
and humble enough to represent our planet to other,
presuming that humans could represent our planet any more than they once might have,
to other intelligences or other beings or other physical beings in some way resembling us,
like capable of something. I think most of those beings are going to think like,
these people are so crippled that they've lost the capacity for clairvoyance and telepathy.
So, you know, they're a little bit like automatons with wood in the brain.
The brains have crystallized into representation,
representational cognition.
And so, you would deal with them very carefully.
They would be mostly who you would want to talk to are not the adults.
There might be some adults among them who are still alive in the mind,
and you might want to talk to those.
But other than that, what you'd want is to talk to their children,
because that's the only place where you'd get access to something resembling the intelligence
that the form of the animal is carrying as a potential,
but wiping out with representational cognition at its earliest convenience.
And the hilarious thing about the humans, the big joke,
is that they think they're giving their children intelligence when they give them,
Jesus, what a nightmare.
It's like you think you're giving your kid a helium balloon,
but you're actually giving them an anvil.
There's no lift.
They think they're giving their kids wings by teaching them representational cognition.
But they don't think that because that's the intelligent thing to do.
They think that because that's the dominating pathology on their world.
That's the problem.
Huh.
So yeah, they would not want...
It'd be almost useless to talk to adults.
I mean, our people are suffering.
Such a catastrophically self-accelerating array of decognizing,
which is the process I was talking about earlier.
You take features of our humanity.
Split them off, represent them,
steal them from the people,
then sell them back images of the lost resource.
And we might live lives largely free of immediate,
more free of immediate danger, harm, and illness than ever before in human history,
at the same time being dead inside.
We got safety at the cost of the annihilation of our interiority
and the ecologies of the planet.
And it's not actually safe because at any moment,
a sequence of ten button pushes can end everything that ever was here.
Just turned it into hot dust, you know?
So that's a pretty weird success story.
Ironic as fuck. IAF.
Anything that attacks what we use to evaluate with,
anything that goes after the resources in cognition or thought or our group communication,
anything that goes after the resources that we rely on to navigate
in identity, meaning, relation, reality, quote unquote,
whatever goes after that stuff.
First is a crime that can hide its own evidence.
Anything you can capture that way, you can capture all of it.
You can bank those captures and use the resulting resources to reiterate the process, right?
Run this one more time.
This time let's capture 90% of the interiority of the humans.
Represent it, sell them back the empty wrapper.
Call it Lord of the Rings, the movie.
I'm very fond of the stories written by Tolkien.
In fact, one of the codicils I once, I twice sent to women I had crushes on were...
Sorry, I was actually having memories.
Two of the codicils I sent to women I had terrible romantic crushes on were written in Elvish.
Because once I realized, oh, there's other ways to encrypt this that are more creative
than Darren making some geometric symbols, but that's what I did at first.
When I was like six or seven, I'd make sheets of symbols, one for each letter, encryption.
Yeah, the funny thing is, there are many ways to distort human cognition,
such that the assets we'd use to detect the distortion are compromised first.
And once that's done, the zombie functions responsible for doing that are free.
As long as there's no UFOs, the Pentagon is free to do whatever the fuck it wants.
Whereas if there are UFOs in the Pentagon, some organ of the Pentagon, highly compartmentalized,
let's be clear about this, so you can hide anything.
Once you've got just a few compartments, you can hide anything.
You've got a thousand compartments, you can hide everything.
They're free to do whatever the fuck they want.
And if they have anything resembling a highly efficient system of generating energy,
or a highly efficient technology with which they can carve out rock underground,
then they can do amazing things.
There could be a second nation underneath this one that we're not aware of.
And a number of people have suggested that there is.
And I suspect there's evidence for this in...
So I suspect that one place we could look for this evidence.
That's really weird.
Oh, I see.
Interesting.
So supposedly there are systems of underground monorails and vast underground complexes
underneath various military bases and elsewhere.
A little boy just walked past me and he's figured out that he can raise both eyebrows at strangers to give a smile.
And I haven't seen any child doing that in a while,
but we were like doing the eyebrow raising game back and forth to each other,
which is really fun and trippy.
This is nice to see someone who's still alive in there.
So yeah, with enough compartments, you can hide anything.
And once you can attack the stuff that people use to evaluate,
if you can go after people's threat detectors and their opportunity detectors
in such a way that the whole field quiets down,
you can get away with anything forever from then on.
I mean everything you can possibly imagine.
