I mean, the idea of doing that is unimaginably ridiculous.
It's basically...
Imagine there was a species on Earth.
God, the analogy here is perfect.
Okay, imagine that there's a species of humans on Earth.
There's a... Let's call it a nation. We'll call them a nation.
And their goal is... This is going to be fun.
They are aware that from time to time, large, intracellular or interstellar objects pass near Earth.
And they believe that those objects are holy because they come from the sky.
And so their goal... They believe that the reason that God made humans is to attract those objects to the Earth
so that they will smash into the Earth and produce an apocalypse,
wiping out all the infidels and bringing the holy context of space-time vacuum to the surface of the Earth.
The holy emptiness.
And so they use all of their technological abilities to build devices.
That can attract or, you know, modify the course of these objects
in order to cause them to physically intersect with the Earth
and produce, you know, extinction events.
And you have the same exact thing in our nations, right?
It's just dressed up a little different. It's wearing kind of a different costume.
And what they're saying is, in the event that we become stubbornly aggressive,
we won't just end you. We will end life on Earth. We will end... We will end all games here.
The nations must be dissolved.
I doubt they can be meaningfully repurposed in their current form
because they are infested with malware in the form of zombie functions
that exist to fail to accomplish their mandates on purpose.
The Pentagon catastrophically fails its audit every time it's audited.
Now, it is possible that somebody can lose all the money in their bank account,
or most of it, and still tell the truth.
I won't pretend that...
I won't pretend that if a person is a poor financial manager,
we should dismiss their concerns and rational arguments.
But in this case, the argument is irrational.
It is impossible. What the Pentagon has said cannot be true.
And by the time you have embedded structures of military,
economic, mimetic, and...
informational...
lying.
That guy was just walking past me and he said in a very strong accent,
I heard him say the word meta-thinking, which is great.
This is what I mean by the difference between a multi-threaded mind
where you have rich thread interaction simultaneously,
or you just have one thread, which is sort of, you know,
a good example of that in media would be Homer Simpson, one thread, one thread mind.
Yeah, I don't think we can fix our countries.
And we better not let them walk us to the brink of devastation.
But we, the we in that sentence doesn't actually exist because we never forged it.
So if we could forge it together, international endeavor where we were like,
you know, from now on, we're for the other humans on Earth.
We're not for corporations. We're not for governments.
We're for life.
Organisms actually matter.
I'm not trying to steal slogans here.
Without them, you got nada.
Oh, I get it.
Now everyone can see the problem with that idea, right?
There's all kinds of ways to politicize it,
and present it as anything we can dismiss by denigrating.
And the zombie functions are very adept at this point
at the manipulation of thought-concern language, splintering human cohorts
that might otherwise become communal.
And there's always a push between tribalism and communalism,
also individualism, tribalism and communalism.
Individualism turns out to be pretty cancerous
because anything that's good for me flies,
and I'm going to treat existence as if I only have this life.
This is it. It's the only me, now, here, etc.
There's no such thing as UFOs.
By the way, if you take that statement seriously,
there's one that comes right after it, which is...
All aerial phenomena are identified, right?
AAPAI.
All aerial phenomena AAPA are identified, yeah, AAPAI.
And then it's a short step from that to all phenomena are identified.
This guy switched up so hard!
Now, I guess there's an intellectual hegemony there,
because if all phenomena are identified,
then the purview of language, science and the military is infinite, right?
We know what everything is. We know what everything does.
We know where it comes from, what it's for. None of that is true, right?
So, if you simply look at the implication web for...
There are no UFOs. We have no knowledge of this. There's no evidence.
It's weird that...
It's weirdly interesting that the organs of military and political propaganda
crib from stuff like...
The forehorsemen. There's no evidence of God.
And I guess the Pentagon thinks that if there's no evidence of God,
we could say there's no evidence of anything.
There's actually no evidence of aircraft themselves.
Things don't fly.
Birds are doing something we should call travel, not flight.
And anything that appears to be in the sky is either a star, a bird, an airplane, or a balloon,
or something made by humans. A known thing.
And I got to tell you, I've seen things in the sky that are definitely not known things.
For sure.
The humans might capture them in the...
They might try to capture them with spurious nomenclature that pretends to know what those things are.
That has nothing to do with what those things are.
UFOs aren't real. There's no evidence.
Like I said, I haven't seen the press releases or listened to speeches.
I've only kind of heard through the textual grapevine that the Pentagon said.
Nothing to see here, folks.
Which, if they had departments that were in possession of even intelligence about non-human activities and characteristics,
that by itself would be an asymmetric military advantage, which again is the holy grail of having a military at all.
And it'd be quite easy to keep that sealed up in little pockets of the Defense Department and private contractors
as Colonel David Grush has publicly stated emphatically, explicitly,
this is happening. These people who work in programs associated with this have brought it to my attention and the attention of others.
So somebody's lying here and it seems like it's Arrow Kirkpatrick and the Pentagon.
And I kind of feel sorry for whichever scapegoat was selected by the Pentagon to blatantly lie to the American people
about their history and to the future.
About a topic that is fundamental to our human nature, are there other intelligences in time space?
Do we have access to them? Do we belong with them? Are they our lost family?
Did they create us? Did they influence our development?
Have any effect or influence on the development of life on Earth?
What would it be like to meet a species that was actually intelligent rather than aping it the way ours does?
At the species level, we are clearly not intelligent.
And the more we become quote unquote civilized, the less intelligent our species has become.
Technically facile, wisdom score, you know, 0.03 of 100.
At the species level, at the group level, we are thoroughly captured by problems in representational cognition that lead to and demand
the formation of zombie functions that run as corporations, nations, military industrial information complex, prison complex,
so forth, Facebook, Twitter, Google, the Department of Defense, lack projects in there.
And once they're free of oversight, let me be very clear.
Once free of oversight, if they can maintain freedom from oversight, they can establish a second nation.
And with the flip of a switch, this country could become a prison.
The fact that the oversight is particularly intelligent, we're making the pie of our government with poison ingredients is the problem.
And that's been going on for a long, long time.
And nobody's been bold enough to interrupt that.
And if anyone tried by themselves, they'd probably just be assassinated.
So it's not really the kind of thing you can just go up against and win.
But what you can do is affect a sea change, right?
That's so dramatic.
And so everyone wants in on the new path that the old thing dissolves on the vine.
That seems a reasonable goal.
So Eric's upset because he thinks we need to get off planet.
And I want to be really clear about a few features of that.
First of all, if you were guarding time space, if you were like, you know, living in planets are good things.
And we'd like to protect those because they're very rare and they're full of all kinds of richness, including the ability for perhaps for something resembling a soul to incarnate.
A web of complex forms for souls to incarnate.
This is good. We need this. So we protect this.
If there are beings concerned with protecting living resources, which would probably be one of the most intelligent concerns a species could have, presuming there are other species in time space,
they would absolutely not want to let modern humans free from the earth.
They would need to keep us in this Petri dish for sure.
Maybe at nearly any cost right now because we have failed to develop intelligent societies.
We will burn down the living planet to make war machines.
And then we will snuff it with them if nothing intervenes.
I'm going feral. That's all there is to it.
Hmm.
So,
they might utilize an advanced form of encryption to keep our species from discovering the keys to physics.
And in the same way, I would argue that it would be absolutely apocalyptic if humans had free energy right now.
And it may be apocalyptic if they don't too.
It's not clear which choice is going to actually work there, if any.
You have to get them to establish intelligent collectives and to establish the kind of hygiene that isn't doctrinal, dogmatic or declarative
that produces and supports relational prodigy and super function.
And by giving such amazing rewards, nobody wants to defect.
There's one way to get there.
And that's unachievable.
It's instantly achievable with a small group of people.
It's even more achievable over a small period of time.
But the topic of encryption is really fascinating to me and always has been.
I was rather hyperlexic as a child and I think I'm not overstating it and I'm not really understating it.
I had a facility for language.
And if my parents had introduced me to children from other countries that spoke other languages, I'm sure I would have become apocalyptic.
I had no exposure to other languages.
And the one that really fascinated me that I wanted to pay attention to was Latin.
But again, I had no tutors.
The reason I bring this up is I read a lot of science fiction when I was young.
And I was interested in codes by the time I was five or six.
So to give you an example of how what it was like to be in Darren's mind as a child,
if I developed some wild romantic, and by the way romance was heroic rather than sexual when I was a kid,
if I developed some wild romantic fascination with a girl in my class,
eventually, if I got brave enough, she might receive a note from me.
The first note would be a codex.
So I would essentially create 24 symbols to stand for the letters in English.
And then I would write her and I would give her the codex and then I would write her a note and send it to her.
So that our conversation was private.
Or at least there was a good chance it would remain private.
Somebody getting the piece of paper with a note on it would be unlikely to be able to read it back then for sure.
Today, you'd have to have a much better code.
But I was interested in codes and something resembling encryption as a child.
Which we might, which might suggest various specializations as an adult, possibly in say military intelligence,
if I believed, particularly if I believed in any way in, if I would say patriotic for example,
it's very difficult to be patriotic to something that's infested with parasitic criminals.
And the fact that our country is the least infested doesn't impress me.
Because again, we're looking at, you know, biological brinksmanship here on earth and we have been for quite some time.
And it's right that nobody's paying attention much to that and we should pay a lot more.
But I don't think his idea of air nuking the planet, which by the way, let's be really clear about something.
Since we invented, since the invention of atomic weapons, there have been over 2,000 detonations on the surface of the earth.
It doesn't really matter if they were in the ocean or the sky or underground or where they were, that's a full-scale nuclear war.
And all of the costs implied, right, the beings died. They're still dying from it.
The earth was strewn with radioactive fallout, you know, equivalent to what might be produced by a similar number of impact events from any objects from space.
Once again, it's as if the humans aren't satisfied with atmosphere.
They want hard vacuum down here on the surface of the earth.
And if you disagree with me or if we get stressed out at each other as nations and we aren't even humans, we will bring hard vacuum to the surface of the planet.
It's really hard for me to agree with any system that has that ability or would table a threat like that.
It can't be human. That is not human. I don't care what your fucking argument is.
So there are no non-human intelligences, and yet our species appears to be fascinated by producing the resemblance of them in things we call nations and corporations.
Gee, I wonder, are we cargo-culting much? Are we building something we remember having seen before?
Where did the urge to destroy life on earth? How does that even arise in an organism?
You have to be so profoundly dissociated in bullshit arguments and so forth to even, I mean, no one would sit down to the table.
And plan the end of organisms on earth, except our species would and does.
