So the fact that you, you know, failed to pull the hair trigger gun isn't even interesting.
By doing that, what is interesting is you learn that if we point guns like this at each other, they're going to go off.
And when they go off, everyone will die, everyone.
Human history will disappear.
The history of life on Earth will possibly disappear if we fuck up the atmosphere.
You don't get two chances at this.
And one of the things, you know, Eric Weinstein, who I've been listening to a bit lately, and who I enjoy listening to.
You want to learn.
I mean, I learn a lot from him, but not just from what he thinks or necessarily what he says.
But his artfulness as an orator is quite interesting to me.
And often, this is something I notice and appreciate in humans generally.
Oratory artistry.
Without exposure to it, I myself am unlikely to develop or maintain any degree of skillfulness in verbal communication.
And it's something that I take very seriously and enjoy.
So Eric was saying, you know, we don't take nukes seriously enough because we haven't had a good scare lately.
And he also says something that I understand what he's getting at, but it's the wrong idea.
He's saying we should have rare atmospheric nuke tests to remind people how dangerous it is.
There's three reasons why I don't really buy that.
And I think that's not a good idea at all.
And part of his argument was that Russia uses nuclear weapons for geoengineering tasks,
essentially to dig up or, you know, evacuate a mountain or whatever, right?
And I think this is catastrophically stupid for many reasons,
but what he's saying is that Russia is much more comfortable with nukes than we are because they use them regularly.
The danger here is confusing the American people in Russians.
Terrifying the American people about nuclear weapons will not help you.
In fact, terrifying the American people will hurt you in lots of ways
because the people who are making decisions about nuclear weapons are not the American people.
There's a fragmentary array of processes that I call zombie processes or zombie functions that comprise what's left of our government.
Most of that is dead tissue struggling to retain its power and become immortal.
And that's why we spent, you know, I don't know, 30 trillion dollars on weapons over the past X number of years, 30 trillion.
So, you know, scaring the American people isn't going to help you at all.
What you have to do is put, you have to kill the zombie functions.
And there's two ways to do that.
Either go at them directly, in which case they'll probably produce apocalypse, right?
Because they'd rather die than be defunded.
And if they're going to die, then everything can die with them.
The problem with weapons like nuclear weapons and intelligence weapons, particularly mimetic weapons,
is that you can threaten the entire history and future of life on Earth with them.
You can literally take the planet hostage.
And if you get a zombie function that is intent enough upon its immortality and dominance,
then they will table the asset.
Now, here's the thing about UFOs and why the link here.
First of all, it's obvious that whatever we mean by the term UFO, and I'm using the archaic term,
vastly interested for some reason, probably a fairly obvious one,
in humans conducting missile tests and tests of nuclear weapons.
Lots of documented encounters and transformations of circumstance,
catalyzed by flying lights and or, you know, ships, vehicles.
Sorry, I'm around so many people, it's a little distracting.
So, if there are beings that have access to more than one world,
and they're going to be very interested in living worlds, those are uncommon,
and they're going to be even more interested in complex, in super complex,
biorelational places like this one.
And they're probably going to take the value of those worlds very seriously.
Whether they are concerned with research, trade, or even war.
And hopefully they've grown out of war, mostly.
So, above ground nuclear tests are not going to help anything,
and what they will do is put, you know, fallout in the atmosphere.
And I don't know the math of this, I don't know what, you know, what kinds of radiation
are humans exposed to by nature regularly without nukes.
But pretty sure that the shit in fallout will produce millions of cancer deaths.
So, you can't just blow up a bomb and not kill anybody.
And it isn't just people that could kill its organisms, all the different kinds.
So, I don't think that's a good idea.
What we have to do is develop, you know, we need to
recapture our own military and the intelligence complex so that they actually serve
purposes that aren't lethally misguided, criminally insane,
and provide a means for wealth and power.
You know, they're like breeder reactors for the exact kinds of wealth and power
that a free society must not support.
So, the other problem here is that, and there's so many issues,
one of the things I've spoken of a bit recently, which occurred to me a little while ago,
I've long been an advocate of electronic privacy,
and I believe that some will argue, well, that lets bad actors do crimes with it,
with communications tech.
And I would argue, okay, what's the other option?
We surveil everyone.
That invents bad actors with surveillance tech.
That's a bad actor factory.
My son, I was talking with him last night, and he said,
we were talking about black swans, right, sudden unexpected events.
And what he said was, you know, there's this sort of British shimmer joke
from Monty Python of no one expects the Spanish Inquisition,
which of course keeps adding to its primary weapons.
What no one expects is an anomaly factory,
something that just starts pumping anomalies into our mind's life,
relationships, nations, corporations, experiences of every kind.
No one expected a black swan generating black swan,
right, the one that just starts pumping them out.
But I suspect that something like that is going on at the moment.
And I also suspect that many of my listeners will understand what I am talking about,
even if they have perhaps not thought of it before this way,
but we'll see who agrees.
Shit.
So, you know, Eric's very upset that string theory has captured physics for 40 years,
and says, I think, very reasonably things such as, you know,
physics is a horse race, string theory doesn't have a horse.
So the horse race produces actionable tech, apparently,
or at least actionable intelligence about the nature of time space and beyond.
String theory is not doing that.
But claiming to be, you know, a horse racer,
whereas actual physics does stuff.
Reasonable objection.
He also claims that string theory has captured most of the intelligent minds
or hypnotized them kind of, right, like entranced them for so long
that there's no actual progress being made in physical theory
or stuff that we could test, at least.
Also true.
Someone else said that some physicists complained that
it's like they just become subroutines in Ed Whitten's mind,
because Ed Whitten, sort of the champion, the string theory's champion,
essentially just tells them what to do, and they do it.
Right, like he just gives them tasks.
Wow, the whole family's here.
I think the young male is celebrating his...
I think he's celebrating his capture of the peanut.
And some of his peers, some of his siblings are celebrating with him.
It's a big moment, because the whole family's together.
And the parents are not particularly responsive,
because they have to watch the kids.
That's awesome.
So I wonder if I can recompose my thread.
Let's see how my thread memory is today.
The kind you need to develop, by the way, thread memory.
Multiple threads at once.
Far better capacity for insight.
Single-threaded thought and memory.
Good luck.
I would argue that humans are so dumbed down,
in terms of our relationship with memory,
that it's not only that we can be really easily deceived and farmed,
but we will not really experience what it's like to have a mind,
but a vibrant mind is robustly multithreaded.
You will get nearly zero insights from a single-threaded mind.
So if our thread memory, which, by the way, is the kind that helps you remember dreams,
and allows you to pursue multiple topics while hopefully failing to birdwalk,
to full-on go everywhere at once.
So let's see how my thread memory is today.
UFOs.
Eric.
Yeah, he seems to think that if you scare the people...
Oh, I see. Yeah, I see the thread.
If you scare the people, they won't shoot nukes at each other.
Even Eric would agree that's naive.
I must have misunderstood him somehow.
Because if you think you're going to really scare the military and the leaders of our country,
I mean, those people are trained to be unscarable.
And also, the posture is if they're not, no matter what.
They're just like two guys about to get in a fistfight.
They're staring each other down.
You've got to not blink.
Your grim determination must be clear in every aspect of your presentation.
But here's the thing, the Pentagon and UFOs.
The fucking holy grail of asymmetric advantage.
The most secret thing of all secret things.
Is this topic, UFOs.
It's more secret than nukes.
The capacity to either actually table non-human technology in a military engagement.
Or, at the very least, create a situation where your adversaries...
Which, you know, at this point in human history, let's be really clear.
Nations and their adversarial relationship are the deadliest thing on earth.
Second on that list is the propagation of machines.
Third would be pollution.
Fourth is, you know, we can keep going.
But that modern nations have an adversarial relationship in 2024,
when the future of life on earth and our species is at risk.
And I don't mean sort of at risk.
I mean, completely.
You know, there are 15 knives hanging over our necks with weights attached to them.
And some of them are hanging by a thread.
That's what I mean.
The fact that there's adversarial nations is completely ridiculous.
And the people of our world should, in a sense, rise up together and put an end to that.
Like, we are here for each other from now on.
That whole war thing, that's from a long time ago.
We've got better things to do.
There's nothing we can do.
There's no more we can do.
Not only does that not resolve our problems, it entrenches them, right?
This has to come to an end now.
And Mr. Weinstein, with all due respect,
above ground, you know, atmospheric nuke tests are not going to cut it.
And we'll produce a bunch of dead living beings every time we do them.
So if we're going to be that flagrant with our desire for transformation,
the energy, the explosive waste of such energy,
actually creating lethal fallout on the planet is probably not the right move.
Scare the wrong people.
And, you know, one imagines that there's probably some technology
that could be employed that would make it impossible to detonate a nuke over a broad area,
but it might also make it impossible for organisms to be healthy in that area.
So you don't want to get into an arms race at all, right?
With the money that our nations spend on war, we could rebuild each other's countries from the ground up.
With that much money, we could establish a post-scarcity planet.
But the holy grail of asymmetric advantage would be knowledge of technologies of non-human origin.
And that's the most secret thing.
I mean, there may be other secrets, right?
But that one thing would give you...
If your adversaries believed that you were probably in possession of such tech,
they'd have to make a guess, and the guess would be...
Will our nukes still land and detonate whether they have the tech or not?
Can we shower enough nukes on another?
