Because as you degrade the observational intelligences and abilities
in any parasitic prey group,
your freedoms explode therefrom.
Humans are very clever and when they're dissociated from being human,
it's pretty easy to get them into that state,
offer perverse incentives.
This is a completely hypothetical cartoon.
Well, it's funny, I don't want to actually paint the picture that I was envisioning.
Maybe I can make a...
Alright, let's say that someone you can't stop, a nation.
And neither is there any way you can expose them.
So they come to you and they say...
They've got a plan.
They're going to put slow poison, slow acting poison,
in 87% of the foods at your local grocery store and all the others.
They offer you the opportunity to be the agent
that selects and applies the poisons.
They will test to make sure you've done this
and they'll do something extremely nefarious and painful to you if you don't.
So it's like either we do it or you do it.
At least if you do it, you know it's going to be done.
At least if you do it,
you could perhaps reduce the amount of harm done to innocent people
who we must imagine are not engaged in any active conflict with the poisoner.
And it's certainly not off the table that pharmacological companies
either support such an endeavor directly
because it's going to produce millions of new patients per year.
Stocks will go through the roof,
especially because we will make them sick and we will cure them.
So as long as your sick-making doesn't get found out,
the curing becomes unimaginably lucrative very quickly.
We live in a situation where humans are perversely incentivized to defect from humanity
and this becomes institutionalized, becomes a way of life over time.
And it's part of the disease that is inside and infects colonizing nations.
This is a disease we've inherited from ancestral insanity and pillaging.
The people who came and wiped out the indigenous cultures of the Americas
had themselves been completely compromised prior to engagement.
They were no longer human.
And the mistake that the indigenous peoples probably made again and again
was to suppose that they were human.
I think those peoples thought that their humanity was somehow encrypted
and would eventually surface and become obvious.
And since they have these capacities to make objects we cannot make,
maybe they have been in touch with divine beings,
which is even possible, but it must have been the wrong ones.
Because the result of that was horrible.
There's an apocryphal story that the military has had a number of sort of meetings
with non-human intelligences and one of them offered a post-scarcity planet
with free energy but no war and the other one offered them weapons
and they took the second one.
Again, this goes back to the thing between Khrushchev and Kennedy.
They knew we have to stop this here now or both of our peoples will die for certain.
And they tried and this is probably among the top reasons, if not the primary reason,
why Kennedy was assassinated by compartments within our own government.
Hard to imagine a foreign power that would want to assassinate a guy who's going to disarm the arsenals.
That's the kind of thing where your home groans are the problem
because they depend for their power and the longevity of their, what do you call it, legacy.
When these guys die they hand shit off, when they retire they hand stuff off to others
and they reap monumental benefits for them, their families, their friends, their children from doing so.
So it's sort of a wealth and power factory, nobody wants that to come to an end.
They're going to do anything they can to keep that from happening.
Again, perverse incentives for defection from humanity.
Anything that goes after what we use to detect, like if you can infect the stuff that humans use
to determine, for example, identity, then they're going to go nuts first of all
because they won't be able to do what humans naturally do,
which is to detect and respond to opportunities and threats, vigilance, ambiguity, prediction.
This is the trinity underlying much of our cognition and emotion as human beings.
Introduce a lot more ambiguity, the humans go nuts because they can't disambiguate it.
It doesn't take much.
If you really, if you want a taste of what I'm talking about in a limited scope,
you can just dip your toe in, just load the TAMU webpage, T-E-M-U, and have a look at that
and swim around in that schizogenic, psychogenic water for 20 minutes and see what happens to your mind.
I was joking with a friend that, I was joking but I was telling the truth.
I wasn't actually a joke.
In my Facebook news feed on my phone where I don't have FB purity,
which I strongly recommend for anyone who uses Facebook on a computer,
and they are horizontally scrollable so you can scroll them just by swiping left.
And I would see a string of 12 or 15 objects so completely incomprehensible that I have no idea the fuck those were.
I don't even know what class of objects they were.
Are they weapons? I can't tell.
Are they tools? Unsure.
Are they something that extends the capacities of a computer? Can't tell.
Do you cook with them? I don't really know.
Are they multi-purpose objects? It's not clear.
I'm talking like 10, 15 objects in a row.
I can't tell what class of object any of them are.
And it certainly isn't because I'm not technologically astute.
I've been a computer technician for more than 30 years.
I recognize most forms of technology.
Now I will grant you that there's probably someone you can put next to me
who has enough specialized knowledge that they might recognize four or five of those objects to be able to tell what they are.
Or possibly there are people whose categorical intelligence has been trained by Temu
to recognize absolutely anomalous looking things.
But if you wanted to drive someone that shit crazy, what you might do
is just have artificial intelligences build a product catalog
of 10 million items that don't exist
are provocatively suggestive of actual objects
but belong to no object class
and then project that at a population 24-7.
You don't need slogans.
You can destroy their mind with images of things that aren't, you know.
I think the slogans will follow naturally.
And this is the kind of thing I'm talking about where if, for example, you can affect the foundation,
okay, if you can affect the foundations of cognition
which primarily have to do with, for example, telling what things are, what is that.
You know, I had a long discussion with someone I'm close to the other night
in which they complained that when they tried to figure out
what is motivating their decisions
the common way to phrase the question is why did I do something, right?
Why did I do something I did?
Bond with this person, not bond with that person.
Defect from some friendship, etc.
They couldn't find, they completely failed to find any evidence
of being able to understand why anything had been done.
And, you know, if you focus the mind on a deep enough aspect of its own origins and functions
you're going to get nonsense if you try to force it into a category.
You're going to get nonsense, right?
Because when you go really deep, you have problems like,
I don't know if I know why I did anything, but who is it that is asking?
And why are they concerned with that?
Like, if I'm trying to figure out why I did something, why am I trying to figure that out?
Also, this implies the existence of two me's, the me who does things
and the me who disambiguates the doings later.
That's going to set up a system of mirrors that will eventually produce feedback
and, wow, is that going to go sideways if we're not really careful with it.
If we're looking at the superficial situation,
you know, I went to the store because I needed some milk, that's not a problem.
I watched the clothes because they were dirty.
I wrote the book because I felt inspired and curious and wanted to have an adventure.
All that stuff works.
But if you want to know the actual reasons, like down deep, good luck
because you're going to run into that W in the beginning of most of the, you know,
six of the seven question words in English,
that you divide yourself into one who is asking and one who is answering
and unless you're very clever and skillful and creative, that's not going to fly.
So if you can mess up the features that humans use to determine the category of something,
if you can fuck that up at its basis, then you've got a free ride after that
because if they can't determine the category, they cannot detect a threat.
Their threat detection, architecture, unconsciousness will fail a lot of the time
and it'll fail more the blurrier the category of what or who becomes.
Blur those two categories, you've got a perfect attack on the unfortunate
representational who are subject to such manipulation.
It will fuck them up and that's a lot easier than launching nuclear weapons
so you can be absolutely sure that since the United States has adversaries within and without,
adversaries within the government who want, you know, slavery and control
and prison-eering of the populace and adversaries outside the government
who want military power or freedom.
They don't have to worry about the United States, they can't put an army together anymore.
They've got some missiles but they can't fight a ground war.
All kinds of things become possible.
So what I'm asking is that we help each other to stay awake
because I think we're falling asleep in a trance in which the assets with which we normally employ,
the assets we normally employ to determine identity and thus to...
that fund our vigilance.
One of the primary features of consciousness.
Those assets have been compromised intentionally and unintentionally
in the sense of behavior of like media organizations and stuff
that didn't set out to fuck those up
but discovered that it was profitable to do so.
And now, you know, fill banks with that behavior.
Fill bank accounts with that behavior.
So we're not merely living in strange times, we're living in times where it's become nearly impossible
to understand the answer to any question that begins with what or who.
They're taking out the question words one by one
and replacing them with really blurry, half, you know,
schizogenic, half psychotic mirages forged by language and media.
Good luck, humans.
Unless we help each other right quick, we're going to lose the capacity to help anything.
On the bright side, I think we can teach each other to understand and respond to the problems we're facing.
But we're going to have to do it for ourselves.
No one's going to come along and help us fix that.
We've got to do it together.
And I look forward to the grand experiment of learning how to do that
and to future conversations.
Thank you for joining me.
Bye-bye for now.
