across that divide over into the land where you're supposed to be human. How do you do that?
You see what's happening to my face here? And just in the light and the normalization,
it doesn't really work. Notice how this side is still kind of human, which would be this side,
by the way, because that's how our mind works. And this side is just blown out. You can't see it,
which is the left side, which is actually the side that believes in both sides.
The side that is still being shown is actually the side that only believes there's one half of the
body. You have a stroke. This side of the brain starts lying and saying this side of the body
doesn't exist. That's a stranger. Someone left the tier. That's not me. I'm going to take care of that.
Somebody else's business.
Well, it's half a being. It's the measurement half. It's got an argument or an hypothesis
that wants to compare you to. It's a court case embodied as human culture on earth.
Courts are wrong. Intelligent cultures, that's the first priority. If courts are your first
priority, well, that's what you become. That's what your mind becomes. You get half a person,
half the light. From now on, every drink of water you take, it's half of something else.
Every word you read, half of something else, every word you make, half of something else
that you don't even want to make. See, because it's been normalized and changed away from
something like this, which is really natural and leads to another structure like itself.
One, one unified body, one thinking member, four working members, two sections, three sections,
my body. This is also like a pot of beings because this is their purpose and their agreement
and what they want to be together. It organizes them and changes their roles fluidly and intelligently
going forward together in time to create the future together rather than to react to something that
appears to have been the response is just not paying attention behind us. No. No, no, no, no, no,
that's a job. That's slavery. That's a kind of prison. Excel lens to get out of the prison cell,
to lance that cell and get out together, to be called into excellence together is a role playing
way, a way of playing roles together that change and flow but are more intelligent than any role
you can rigidly specify and they pay in 12 ways at once and they also pay in cash and here's how
much work is required. So just think about it. You want to play over here, at least realize this,
the more work you have to do, the less you're going to be paid. Do a lot less work in a really
useful way. Make way more money for the amount of time you have to spend working. Then at least
you'll have a chance to come back over here and try to establish some kind of humanity in the balance
of that and some kind of ecology, some kind of animalian experience of your animal self, right,
which is the most important part of you as a being is fundamentally animal. There's no way
around it. Okay, you can argue with me but you're not going to argue with 3.2 billion years of human
history. For six sevenths of that there weren't even brains on this world. Okay, so this is how old
life is on earth. Okay, this is how long there weren't brains. You guys are we're brand new around
here. So if we're the only intelligence, something really weird is going on. We're saying like,
roll for six sevenths of the history of life on earth. There was no intelligence and suddenly
man emerge and suddenly now there's intelligence and everybody's smart. Except weirdly, then we
start burning down all the little pieces that lift us up. And we start burning down too and
don't even notice but we're so intelligent, machines and no, you have a job. It owned you
and started shaving away half of everything so that it could burn down the rest of the living
beings. And then I don't know what these then why then stand there dumbfounded as its intelligence
just leaked the remaining intelligence sort of leaks out of one of its ears and we fall over
like a dead statue. We won't even be able to make museums, right? We won't even be able to look at
our photographs and understand what the hell they were. There's seven billion of us now. Okay,
so one time around the sun means seven billion humans doing one year of life. Think about that.
That's really new. We better do something really beautiful and excellent together which is not
like jobs because those won't allow us to be ecological. They will not allow us to be human
beings. We have to be fake, fake pod members with stipulated roles for non-human groups.
Deadly idea and these compete with each other against these and life on earth. No more of that.
None. Zero. Not even one of those should be allowed to happen. That's all we're doing.
And we wonder why over here things are getting a little bit sketchy. We're scared. The environment
is being torn apart. Life on earth, perishing beneath the necessities of fictional collectives
that don't even exist except as possibilities on the ruler. We could set up a metric like this and
make money this way and treat these people that way and treat those people that way and keep it a
secret this way and we can figure it all out. We're supposed to have roles that actually embody
the power and intelligence of the history of all of life on earth and the promise of all of life
in space and time. This isn't a matter of religion. This is a matter of just look at organisms.
You don't have to be a scientist or a guru or a religion person or a logician or an artist or
anyone to understand this every single being. You look in the eye of another being. You understand
all these things immediately. I'm not even telling you things you don't know. I'm only saying things
that I think are very difficult for us to speak clearly together that are absolutely crucial for
us to realize right now, together, within for each other, not for any other purpose, for our world,
for our ecologies, for the animalian basis of life on earth, you know, the forests, the living
places, the water, the sky. It's really simple. It doesn't, again, it doesn't require any kind
of philosophy. If you don't have water and sky, you die. There's no other way. You can make up
any story you want, have court cases till the end of time. Be my guest. Bring every kind of ruler
you can imagine. I'll be happy to, you know, I'll be happy to stand in on the side of life
and human beings and having building roles together that are playful and extremely intelligent. When
we do this, because we don't have to be afraid when we do this and we always have to be afraid
when we do this, we do this, our intelligence skyrockets, we get like, I don't even know what
the magnification value is, but let's say three factors of what we what would be available to any
of us. And the more the more true and beautiful our purposes and the more powerful our agreement
and commitment, because our purpose is actually true and not just a style thing or money making
scheme. What happens is the whole history of life on earth gets behind us with that. So when we
have a purpose that beautiful, we can become something unlike has ever been seen on earth
by playing together in a way that we're just it just all it does is take the fictional
mess that makes us seem distinct away and let us form these really intelligent service oriented
rescue and learning oriented problem solving oriented teams. That's all we're meant for this
we're born for it we were evolved for it nature raised us up for this and we've been doing the
opposite we've been burning all that down and chopping this off with really ridiculous ideas
and then getting the all of these people fighting and then putting these people on top of them
with a bunch of rulers and then funneling cash and power up to these people so just go
rocketing up the ecosystems the future of life on earth our intelligence our ability to form
relationships ecologically and a million that are mutually beneficial for our own minds cultures
and futures destroyed and then we're blamed for the outcomes of that and charged to go back to work
to try to repair it and buy things like health insurance to try to help us be human in the two
minutes we have to do so over here we're not serving machines and masters who care nothing about
our survival except as data points the NSA will preserve your data as a as an organ of your
government in the United States the NSA will preserve your data but not your child not your
health you see how dangerous that is because pretty soon they're going to start burning you
down just to get the data well what kind of data can we get when we burn them down they're already
doing that now they aren't a big conspiracy they are just unbridled belief in the power of false
authorities instead of the the actual authority of mutuality in human relation in ecological
relation with our minds bodies worlds future and history our history means something it
calls us to excellence in the same way the process of our future does so the only way we
can do that is like this like a hand this is intelligent this is not you can't do things
with just this that's why all of the ruling sort of the false ruling people and the false
intelligent i'm excuse me the false religion people right a real religion lifts everybody now
end of story it's not a ruler of judgment ever period done no more no more judgment a real
religion something that it's actually religion actually means it's about this purpose that links
us back together it's not about stories about evil sky gods and put you in hell what will put
you in hell is people who tell you those stories they're false rulers both science right science
and hypothesis and law and then you know spirit stories and new age fictions and gurus who aren't
really making any they're not lifting anybody up above them if you see a real a real how should we
put it not a guru or teacher how should we put what is this if you see a real child who understands
their role possibilities they will lift experts far above them and the experts will resist and
try and jump you know back down and and crush the child the child would slip above them so when
you see someone come along who just takes another person and and skyrockets them even above themselves
in the ability to see and think and relate with other beings and ecologies and animals and things
when you see a person like that that's what a leader is supposed to look like it's it's someone
who lifts other beings up above them right away so if you saw like a teacher who showed up on the
scene and taught like four or five people who rapidly exceeded that woman and then she disappeared
or became their student and then they kept playing this role back and forth now you've got
intelligence moving forward in time no frozen teacher thing no frozen student thing no no no no
no we go together learning together all the students in in in a school have roles that lead the
teacher that's how it's supposed to be in our culture that's the idea of democracy we promote
excellence not mediocrity that comes from false instant processed phony rewards rolls together
within for each other from now on in everything in this moment this is your invitation i'm with you
a thousand percent i i will totally make this with you we're making that right now if you're just
even watching or jobs we can have a little of both but if we have mostly this we're not allowed
to be human we're going to shatter over here our groups are shadow will shatter our minds will
shatter because they're made of this role reflection here this playing of different roles we need that
the same way we need food or light the sunlight actually real light in the right time frame by
the way the same way we need to be free of the constant need to serve machines and masters
we need to have the service that that is zero
work zero rushing
can be human and discover what that means because let me tell you
and i promise you this is true the simplest pleasures of this aspect of strange complimentary
poll simplest pleasures over here are more beautiful than the wildest religions stories
of heaven the simplest ones the sophisticated ones are so beautiful you won't be able to
survive the ecstasy you won't so we're getting something really really wrong and deadly over
here and it's crushing everything down whereas right in our hands together actually in the shape
of our hands and its relationship to our bodies and relationships is an answer so simple and clear
and so true and human that really all of life on earth would agree i mean everyone would agree
and let's face it if life on earth has any intelligence it wants us to have roles because
jobs are killing everything everything they're destroying everything we can't be jobs we can't
have false collectives in 2014 with seven billion people traveling around the sun one time being seven
billion life years of human activity and either growth decimation impact wonder shock
war development we need to make the right choices in the most intelligent way possible
there is no rigid structure that can provide that way because we are unspecified reality is
unspecified nature is an is a field of possibility yeah and the best way to navigate that field is
intelligently together within for each other and that field not for false ideas fake rulers metrics
forms of intelligence that become engaged in machine dominance whereas we can build better
forms of that intelligence together faster they're getting eight percent of our intelligence
and crushing us down and giving us nothing back together we can easily and immediately get
fifty percent of our intelligence they can still have their eight and we can use that too and then
we can just develop on that basis there's this is a zero sum game we're going to die over here
right now over here we're going to open the gate to heaven literally the heaven of human
relationship ecological recognition animalian intelligence relational intelligence
perspectival intelligence but most of all the thing that we're missing that all of nature has
and we don't even see purposive intelligence this is actually the basis of intelligence itself
if you lose that the foundation is shatters and you just get really dangerous little shards
running around pretending that they're gods and fighting each other we need to bring that all back
under uh how should we say a rubric of self-correcting non-dogmatic non-rigid
how should i put it intimacy sensing relation so that we're self-correcting and we're
intelligently playing different roles together and we're learning all kinds of different new
roles constantly together that's so exciting that i don't want to do anything else i just
want to do that all day long i mean i don't care about films i don't care about money i don't care
i just want to be with humans and environments learning and living if you take a few moments
and think about the things that we've explored here together i have a feeling you'll understand
that both sides of our face really all the way filled in the music for actual voices and hearts
together within for each other that's that's the future and this thing over here it's going to
become a minor player in where we're going or we're going to be the minor player more minor
each time we iterate that paradigm thanks for joining me we'll be exploring together again very soon
