Hi, thanks for joining me. My name is Darren Stevenson. You're probably watching my YouTube
channel. Actually what you're watching is a digital representation of something that
happened in the past, but if you think about it carefully you'll realize that in some very
dependable way what's happening right now is really complex because I'm speaking in
a frame of time that you can't enter formally. And you're receiving it in a frame of time
that I can't enter formally. And what we're doing is I'm transmitting, it seems, as though
I am transmitting something forward in time to you where you will receive it. But my experience
is not like that. My experience is that I'm receiving waves of information from behind
me that are kind of pushing me forward. And I'm receiving another kind of information
from in front of me which drives and inspires my every word. Without you in the future, at least,
and you may think that you're only theoretical for me, but for me personally you're not theoretical.
I don't have the same, I don't see the world as a hypothesis. Okay, I don't. It's not my experience
that the world is something that might also be said. It might also be said that, it's not a
legal case. What my experience of being human and alive is so shockingly intense that none of the
fictions are even very interesting to me except as kind of, well, perspectival toys. Like, toys
that change our perspective. I want to change your perspective or at least give us some some
perspectives to play with on some ideas that are pretty common for us as human beings, their
ideas about what makes a group and what makes a human being and what makes something that isn't a
human being. And we sort of know secretly that all around us, there are people who aren't human
beings. And the really weird thing is you can't really point at someone and say, well, that person
is not a human being or that one. Yet we like to do that. We call this law. It's wrong. We're just
dead wrong because actually what you have are flows of moments of beingness emerging as persons in
flows. So if you if you take one of those and freeze them into a form and then accuse them,
they're just going to probably either have to just keep playing out that role and you're going to
have to enforce that role on them too because ordinarily, they'll just they'll just change and
grow and may change in the same direction you don't like, but they're not going to stay the same.
Trying to make them stay the same by telling them what they are, either you're sick or you're
beautiful or you're good or you're ugly or you're brilliant or you're dumb or you're, you know,
a genius or you're a loser or you're a winner or you're no one or you're really somebody or
you're special or you're not, you know, all these ideas, they're really ridiculous because you're
not any of those things. In fact, you're unspecified. That's the truth of the matter. You nobody has
the slightest idea what you are. None. Not one, not the slightest. I'm telling you, honestly,
they don't know. And that's why underneath you, there are all these authorities fighting desperately
to tell you what to be. And the really weird thing is that something inside us wants to be
told what to be, which is even seems a little crazier because we've been trained to believe
that we're supposed to be individuals and have like free will or individuality, originality.
Well, the ironic thing about free will, individuality and originality
is that they only really exist in this strange kind of bowl. And it's not just a simulation bowl.
It's not just a simulated bowl. It's not, it's not merely a symbol either. Those are two different
things, but what it is, is something like an intimately bound group of beings who are changing
their personalities and roles and identities somewhat fluidly together in a process that is
forward. It is forward or is oriented forward in time, relation, ecology, environment, context,
but probably in an order like this, cosmos, environment, animal, context of the moment,
these beings here, what we can become together or, you know, what are, what are, how should we
put it? What are our most easily accessible opportunities are? And what are most excellent
opportunities are? Because we're always faced with this, what's most easily accessible right here,
right now? And what does excellence ask of us? What will it, what will it invoke or evoke in us
as beings, as possibilities, as if waves of potential as a being are collapsing slowly but
fluidly into a changing form of identity? Who? Role, which is a lot about why, right? Method,
which is how? Environment and context, circumstances, circumstances, yeah, how we
stand in the circle of beings of all beings, circumstances, not just not just how we stand
in hypotheses or laws. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, not how we stand in relation to machines
or representations or things like this. See, this is a formal measuring stick. It's actually a
representation of something so shocking that if you had any idea what this represented, you'd
understand why it's called a ruler. Because if you know what this represents, you know all those
guys who say they rule? Well there's about three or four men on earth who have any idea what this is.
And there's hundreds of children but by the time they'll they can speak they won't be able to say
anymore. And there's a few people who spin things that know what this is. But the representation
you're never ever, no living being should ever be compared to one of these in any possible way.
Except in the most sort of playfully gentle convenience ways of learning and making toys
together to help each other become more insightful, more intelligent and more like a unified team of
beings. Because what's happening to us is we're being broken away from groups and then measured
against this. And this is held above us, right? How much do you earn? How important is your job?
You know how beautiful are you? How thin? How how abundantly large are you? How short?
How tall? Where do you stand on the intelligence scale? How relationally intelligent are you with
other beings? How financially intelligent are you? How educationally or intellectually intelligent?
How creatively intelligent, right? How physically intelligent? How communicationally intelligent?
Yeah? How do you consume? What's your consumer intelligence? What's your spectator intelligence?
Who are you a fan of? Why? All these little measurements all over the place, right? Pretty
soon, you got all these metrics, yeah, metrics. In fact, we get replaced by metrics. That's what's
happening on the internet. Google is making billions of dollars building intelligences
from these little metrics. They actually just measure your face, right? And they tell like,
they turn like this, right? And which eye is up and which one's open and which one's closed?
Are you smiling at this side or that side? I can do the same thing. That's why I'm intelligent.
When I see someone walking on the street, I see a signal, not just one, a thousand, okay? I just
saw a woman with a dog. I saw her for about three seconds. I don't remember everything about her.
She had a lavender shirt, black pants, red shoes. The dog was brown and white. It weighed about
14 pounds. It was a puppy. She had blonde hair. It had a black ring bun. She was wearing something
under her lavender top. And there was something on her right wrist that was unusual. I only got a
glimpse of her. But if I just had the rest of the day to go over that, I would learn the most
astonishing things because I know how to apply metrics that aren't formal. They're informal,
swarming little pods of metric elements in my mind. And they just play with data. They just
swarm over it like clouds. I don't have to do it formally. Some people call this intuition,
others call it psychism. Some people call it expertise. I want to tell you a little secret.
The most work I ever did in an hour of my life ever, okay, I did for an employer
when I wasn't at work and was not being paid. That was the most work I ever did in an hour of my life.
Now, the second most work I ever did in an hour of my life was for an employer who paid me
$5. The least work I ever did in one hour of my life
was for someone who desperately needed an actual human being to assist them.
In that hour, I did no work at all. I learned more probably than in any other similar working hour
of my life. And I was paid $1,000 not because I charged anything. I charged nothing. Nothing.
That's how much I charged because that's how much work I did. I may have saved that person's
I may have saved that person's actual life and possibly her whole family. I may have saved them
millions of dollars. That's how much work was required. So over here, I have two instances,
one where I got paid nothing for the most work I ever did in my life. The other one I got paid
$5 for the most work I ever did in my life. Over here, I have something completely different.
I have service where I get to have a role and become a being that is liquid. I don't have a set
identity. And in that role, I have abilities that go far beyond anything I've ever allowed to be
over here. Now the most money I've ever been paid for an hour of actual work for an actual employer
was $750 for an hour of actual work. I want to tell you a secret about this mountain of money
over here. It's a really weird and unexpected secret. Other people have talked about it. There's
a gentleman who wrote a book, forgive me, since I've only just been introduced to him for not
remembering his name. It might be Richard Koch, but I really can't remember, so I may have to
correct myself on that. His book was, I think, called the 80-20 Principle. And the idea is that
80% of what we do is extraneous and really just making a mess of things. And it's actually a big
problem. But if we really want to do anything excellent to get outside the cell of our easily
accessible sort of instantaneous false fulfillments, false roles, false identities, false payoffs,
false rewards, false tasks, false methods, false skills, I want to tell you a secret about this
side over here, the money side of the work. And then we'll talk about this side over here,
the money side of being ourselves together with and for each other in the world every moment
from now on. Two different things. Work, a job, and life changing roles in relational
symphonies with the entire history of life on earth, all the beings around you right now, and
giving, generating the future ahead of us rather than just receiving the results of our
kind of rampant stupidity, egoic stupidity as a species and as individuals and as
collectives in the moment. Again, no religion, no science and politics. I've got nothing to
sell here. We're just going to talk about playing with these two ideas. Now over here on this side,
there's a really strange idea I want to ask. I want to ask all of you this question.
Just take a moment to consider for yourselves. Ask yourself these two questions. What was the
most work you ever did in an hour of your life for an employer? How much were you paid for that?
What was the least work you ever had to do in an hour of your life for an employer that you got
paid for? Because the thing I want to make really clear about my own experience is that
as I was being paid more and more to be a technical consultant, by the way, and an on-the-spot
troubleshooter in situations where 10 minutes can cost $100,000. If we're down for 10 minutes,
we're going to lose a hundred grand. So they're willing to pay me a lot of money if I can guarantee
like they won't go down. No matter what happens, they won't even lose one minute.
And I don't know what's coming. And I'm an uneducated person. I left school in the sixth grade
and ran away from home and lived in the forest like a monkey. Okay. And then I came back
to what you guys call civilization and what I saw tried to destroy my mind. But since I happened
to survive, I've got a little bit of monkey smarts left from when I lived in the woods. And
that monkey smarts is worth lots of money because it can see through
problems that ordinary people have because they think they know stuff. I don't think I know.
I have a liquid identity so I can flow into a situation like a chameleon. I can adopt,
I can adopt identities that are useful in that situation that don't belong to me.
I have no right to adopt them.
But I'm not a mimic. Why am I not a mimic? It's a simple reason. My purpose is true.
I'm a faker with a true purpose. Wait a minute. Well, how do you get that? Actually,
that's what a child is. That's what a prodigy is. An artist.
In fact, aren't dreams a little bit like that? And isn't that part of what makes us human? Do
you think your car dreams? Does your computer dream? Does it have eyes of living water
made by billions of beings? Their lives given to preserve and protect them?
No, it doesn't. It has shining lights. I see motors.
Not too much like life. Not too much like life. The job is weird as I got more and more,
as my demand, as the demand for my presence and service has increased, and my value skyrocketed.
Right? Two weird things happened. The first was I wasn't allowed to keep any of that money
at all. I'll go into that. The second was I did less and less work and had more and more fun,
but I was more and more busy and had less and less time to be alive. So I tried to be alive
in little moments between the work or in little moments when I was at work not working because
I was working for myself so I didn't have to be doing anything. I just had to make sure that
certain things were done and then being in a certain place at a certain time to encase something
happened. So I did a lot of that and while I was there I could learn about systems and I built
systems. I did my job, but at the same time my job was my education and I felt literally like
I was a person from another planet because I had done some growing up in the wilderness alone.
For a while in the Russian river area. And I mean I was still in culture. I wasn't completely out in
the woods, but I lived in the woods. I cared nothing about this mess at all. I wanted to find out
what nature was. How would you find out from here?
Anyway, that's a separate story. My point is this.
Jobs, which make us false people. It's like one of these, not like one of these. It just cuts us
off. And it measures us and then gives us little tokens about that which we can give those tokens
away to get other representations of things that aren't roles or lives like films and stories and
things. Or roles which are like the heroic roles that we see actors take on in films that
rock stars seem to portray. Excuse me, I just had breakfast. I'm digesting food.
That we get so excited about and you know, sports stars and authors and all the people
we adore, philosophers and gurus and spiritual leaders and the cultural leaders, the technologists,
the scientists, all of these people above us, but we just kind of push down below them like
looking up with adoration when where's our role? Where did it go? A child doesn't want to be just
a spectator. They want to play the roles together, right? To enact them, to emerge into the world
in themselves in this beautiful, changing, unspecified intelligence of mutuality that comes
from this thing we actually don't count. We count this as five. There's a lot of brightness because
of the light. I'm just going to let it be because you know, it's a natural light and the camera
doesn't deal with it very well. You see the machine is shaving off what you're seeing. That's the
problem right there. It's normalizing it. See, once you've got that normalization,
you're over here in measurement land, okay? You're in the place where this thing becomes God
and it doesn't really exist. It's just a theory. It's just like that weird God over here on the
other side that's supposed to hate and despise you. Not any more than your own mind does. I mean,
there is a sort of a God. There must be something, you know, there are orders of
intelligence that are unified. Let's just say that and doesn't stop with us. So we're done.
That's the end of that comment. What that means is wide open to speculation. But let's just be
really clear. Religion is about the idea that there is an order of intelligence above mankind.
It's that simple. That's all there is. So you either have to say, absolutely don't believe
there could be an order of intelligence above mankind, or you have to say that the arguments
about religion are about something that people are confused about, because all it really is,
is that there's other intelligence and ours is probably in relation with it. Let's face it,
we're buried in it on earth. I think we're in relation with other intelligences. Okay, so
both sides of this argument can just calm down because these people have a measuring stick as a
God and they're saying these people are crazy. I'm sorry. These people are both nuts out of their
minds. Okay, there's no such thing as a hypothetical measuring stick that applies to all things.
That normalization means you can't see my face. It's fading away in the digitization. Watch,
I can make it fade more just by moving. Now, if you were here with me, we wouldn't be having this
problem. See how my face is just fading away in the normalization. When we talk on cell phones,
they normalize our voices. They re digitize what you say. They're shaving off the music,
the living music. They produce artifacts. The same thing happens in concepts like tree,
love, hand, eye, time. Shaving off, right? This is making, this is enslaving. This is making us
into little objects, square like things that can be manipulated, exchanged as value. While we,
and our ecosystems, which are actually the only thing we have that make us human and alive and
intelligent, they lift us up on their backs, while we and the ecosystems are being burned down.
Information and metrics. Essentially, a kind of a demonic technological projection, right? Not,
again, it's bad. The thing about technology, as long as we're intelligently using and interacting
with it, we are not. It's a God, unmanaged God, purely free over us right now. And it's building
people and subcultures in its image, which are all false. They're corporations. In a corporation,
you have a falsified role made of measurements. You can't be human. And then you have to come back
