And if you can't notice that, you kind of can't notice anything.
It's not that we only notice the things that are taken away, but you have to have both sides of the compass, right?
There has to be a north and a south, at least.
There doesn't have to be a good and a bad.
There has to be, like, charge, no charge, in terms of potency, right?
Like, there's expressive potency, and then there's attractive potency.
And these aren't pure binaries.
Inside the expressive is attractive, inside the attractive is expressive, and vice versa.
The expressive is actually attractive, and then the attractive is actually expressive.
They just express differently.
So, for example, well, hopefully, the concept's clear enough.
So, you know, HIV is not what kills humans.
HIV doesn't kill humans.
What kills humans is secondary infections.
Wow, their immune system is malfunctioning wildly.
And you can see here that something in nature attacks the organ of the body that detects attacks of this kind.
And the humans, with their technologies, they do the same thing.
They understand strategic, structured strategic imperatives that many of which have been imported from observations of nature,
which is mostly where all of human knowledge comes from anyway.
It's not human ingenuity.
It's mostly humans observing nature and mimicking it technologically, militarily, biologically, so forth.
Our nation, and, you know, as I've said before, I'm not exactly a patriot, but I'm also not an idiot.
I live here.
I was born here.
If somebody comes after this place and the people here, these are as close to what I have as my people.
Of course, really, all people are my people.
All beings are my people.
But if somebody comes for this, I'm not a warlike person, but I'm not going to just stand by.
You know, like, yeah, sure, you can have all my stuff.
I'll kill all my friends.
Go ahead.
Enslave, you know, enslave my nation, enslave my family, wipe out their memories, destroy their motivation.
Fuck that shit.
I will definitely be doing something to oppose that, even if it begins with a talk like this.
Something has come for our minds, and it is here, and it is killing us as people.
It is attacking our memory, our motivation, our spirit, our community, our communality, our education systems, our economic systems.
I'm not a big fan of industry and money, but again, I'm not an idiot.
If we're going to switch to something, it better not be, you know, some new, five new kinds of slavery.
I care about this country, and I care about all the people in the world, not just our people, all of them.
But something is intentionally attacking our people.
There are bombs going off that we are not well enough educated to recognize, and since we can't recognize them, there's no, what?
There's no upper limit on the number of detonations at all.
Any bad actor capable of demoralizing huge segments of the United States population, what's their next move?
They're certainly capable of that.
Obviously they can steer, our electorate can be steered easily.
And, you know, to the proud isolate kings and queens of their domain who think, well, I can't be affected by that stuff.
I can see right through it.
No, you can't.
In fact, you won't even see it.
It's in the water, and by in the water, I don't mean they put it in the drinking water, though, you know, how would we know?
There's all kinds of variables you can change for humans that they can't detect because they're not looking there, right?
So what I mean by in the water is it's in the between of the humans.
It's in the problem is actually in the connective, the social connective tissue that holds us together as people and members of families and cities and countries and states and so on.
Traditions, as members of traditions, it's in the water between us.
And that water is heating up and it's filled with fucking pathogens.
What kind of pathogens?
Conceptual pathogens.
Well, what do those look like?
They look like complex campaigns that spread through news and social media and the internet.
But they don't have to.
You can plant this kind of a bomb in a small population in Kansas and have it go viral with no, you know, no common evidence on the internet at all, right?
There's a little cohort there playing a game together.
There are a number of obvious conceptual gambits.
We've seen specific evidence of blatantly obvious PSYOP campaigns that organize around the slogan.
You know, absolutely brilliant slogan, do not comply.
Sounds like the heroic battle charge of a new generation.
And it could have been, but it isn't.
These words have been captured.
They are used to propagate a specific array of PSYOPs on a broad range of mostly not American people.
But we've seen similar slogans pop up similar in the sense of being obviously, what?
It's straight up conceptual gain of function research, right?
We are living in a time when information has become a weapon.
Attention is the primary commodity.
Combining attention to self-harm through enacting weaponized cognition is the goal.
So you fuck up people's social communal and interior games.
You inject them with, you know, something that resembles something that attacks how they notice what they pay attention to, what they make of what they're attending,
and why they use their perceptions, why the reasons for which they employ perspective, you attack that.
And if you can attack that, you can hide the attack.
There are bombs going off in our nation all day every day of this kind, right now.
No one's protecting you from them.
There's nothing out there.
Can you even find, you know, there's no fallout shelter from information.
You can unplug, but you're still human, and if you're in the United States, you're going to be dependent on other humans who aren't unplugged.
So you're going to be in the water together.
Now what?
We have to build a lifeboat.
I mean, this is one of the most early fundamental missions of any group that intends to acquire the possibility of orienteering in modernity together.
Just orienteering, right?
Just, you know, navigating, using a meaning compass, making sense of things, detecting when specific features of our lexicon are being compromised on purpose and weaponized for viral recruitment protocols.
And if we're going to be subject to information weapons, just like people who are going to be subject to guns, we have to learn how to make them.
We have to learn how to make them together.
Unless we understand how they're constructed, we will not understand how to compose minds that are not easily compromised this way together.
Yeah, there are, unfortunately, I mean, everyone kind of knows this, but I think it's time to declare this publicly.
The United States is and has for some time been a petri dish for the technology of generating viral information weapons and conducting gain of function research on them.
As they are employed to harm, manipulate, and disempower the general population and the structure and functions of our institutions, whatever those may be.
You can see, I mean, academia is a fucking minefield of psyops right now.
Science has been fundamentally compromised.
Try to shop for an item on the internet.
Any common item.
Try and shop for the item on the internet.
What will happen?
You'll be faced with monumental over choice.
To the point that the mind just eventually shuts down.
My son was joking.
It's something like, you know, the Chinese are really brilliant.
They figured out that the most important thing about Americans is that they shop all the time.
So they flooded our market with millions of objects that we can't differentiate between.
You know, Taimu.
And he's not merely not wrong.
There's something very fucking weird going on.
And it's not new.
So we're going to have to come to terms with this together somehow.
First of all, we need to form skilled, advanced skilled cohorts that can detect psyops of this kind.
And we need to train each other to understand how these systems function so that we can recognize,
not just psyops, but something so that we can form what you might think of as an antigen.
We can recognize the pathogen, form an antigen, cognitively, linguistically, and socially,
and then share that antigen together.
And it might sound like I'm talking about some kind of debunking thing.
I'm not really.
I'm talking about structured intelligence around how modern weaponized social movements start,
gain traction, evolve, are optimized, and then, you know, become contagious.
I am getting rained on.
So for now, I'm going to wind up, as they say.
We will explore these and related topics in soon-to-come future episodes of Darren Babbles about modernity one more time.
Thanks for joining me.
I look forward to learning together again very soon.
May your ways and minds be beautiful.
Peace.
