The second part is, literally, the U.S. is a petri dish for linguistic conceptual psyops
of every imaginable kind by advertisers, our own government, foreign actors,
and bobs your uncle anything.
Humans are crazy beautiful.
The problem is we don't know what we are.
We have no idea what the hell we are, and perhaps less so today than ever.
And what we actually are, it can't be easily said,
but part of it is that we uniquely link the origin world, so to speak,
the original place to the physical world.
Like, as if we are a bridge between the transcendental and the mundane.
And of course we are the mundane, and at the same time we are the transcendental.
There's a ship in the bay, it's the size of a large building.
Humans make these crazy things, and they are playing very strange games.
Game theory is not, it's not too hard to learn the basics of how it works and the math that surrounds it.
There's a little pocketbook on it that I used to have that was quite good.
I mastered the concepts in math, no.
I know the basic principles, because we face them every day in a way.
Do I give? Do I take? If I give and don't receive, then what?
One of the things they were talking about, the whole reason I like this thing is that
when any two organisms emerge into local proximity, and if they are the same kind, much more so.
Organisms cooperate and play even when they are different species.
Young organisms will play together, the kitten and the baby, or the puppy and the baby.
They'll totally play together, and it's not just because the kitten, probably in the wild,
it may be relatively rare, but we must imagine that the children of wild cats and the children of primates
have had many fascinating play encounters over evolutionary history.
So play is universal at the animal scale, I think, nearly universal.
There is something resembling play among certain classes of insects that I've observed.
It's much more difficult for us to understand what's going on with insects if we're only thinking about them.
We have to be having some relation with them somehow to notice their interiority, to sense it.
Or we have to have a gift for such things, or perhaps we practiced it.
You can notice it's just humans approach each other, right?
If you just could film from both sides, surreptitiously, so no one knew it was being filmed,
humans approaching each other on, say, a sidewalk or a busy street,
both in crowded areas and rural areas, then what you would notice, you'd get a big library.
And what you'd notice is that both of the humans are intimately aware, they are very aware,
that the other person can see them, they are being seen, and the other person knows that they are being seen as well.
They both know they are being seen. So how do they respond to that?
Well, with a broad range of behaviors, most of which are lying.
Because ordinarily in human history, you're not being approached by strangers, quote, unquote, all the time.
You're almost always being approached by familiars, so there's no fakery going on, or very little, right?
In the city, we pretend as if we don't see them, or as if we are not seen, or all kinds of things,
or we fidget and fumble until we get close, and then we sort of touch eyes for a moment, maybe.
And then some of us are more gregarious in this game, and others much more private, so to speak.
They keep to themselves, or they don't let on. They keep a game face.
But all of these are games. That's why they call it a game face.
And what would happen if we had a much better way of forming and playing games together?
Games that actually presented meaningful roles for us to develop and fulfill.
Learning.
Achievement that matters, that isn't merely representational, doesn't just add up to dollars in the bank, though it could do that too.
There are a number of writers who are aware of the potential of this.
I think Tamsen Wille Barker is one of them, and I'm pretty sure Bateson's daughter...
What is her? Why can't I remember her name?
Nora Bateson. She's aware of this too. Lots of other people are. Daniel Schmockdenberger.
We talk about game theoretical risks to the future of humanity, and that shit is real.
But there are also game theoretical options.
If you invent games that are so amazing that nobody wants to be left out and they can be played in rounds over time by anyone who wants to play,
there's a broad array of possibilities for the transformation of what captures human attention at the group level there.
We need to capture human attention at the group level because our defection from having done so means that lethal processes capture that.
That will quickly end complex life on Earth.
Even though Dr. K doesn't agree and says those ideas about ending life on Earth are ridiculous, there's no chance of it.
You might kill off half the humans, but you're not going to end even the humans. I think he's wrong.
Hopefully we don't get to find out who's right about that argument.
There is a game theoretical situation where completely disembodied intelligence...
Well, here's kind of a perfect example.
There was a recent news item in which a family was on a cruise ship.
And the relatively young male child was perhaps a bit tipsy or drunken.
I guess they'd been in the hot tub or whatever.
And an argument ensued with his father about his drunkenness or something. We don't know. We weren't there.
And he said, I'll solve this problem for you right now and jumped out the window and died.
It's like 10 stories up on a cruise ship in the ocean.
There is the kind of disembodied left-hemispheric intelligence that just decides like...
I'm not really going to win every argument. If I don't win this argument, I'll kill everything.
I'll shut everything off. I'll show you. I'll shut myself off. I'll shut off the sun.
There's this weird, boisterous voice. It's a voice of pain, but...
It's a weird, boisterous voice in the deserted sewer system underneath representational cognition
that's just absolutely spiteful enough to destroy itself in the act of destroying everything else.
It doesn't care. It's got... Weirdly, the way it has skin in the game is almost like the opposite of having skin in the game.
So there are troubling games that emerge and troubling responses that emerge in the systems of human games.
I mean, look at how badly the nations play together.
We could get people from any city in Russia, in any city in the United States.
We could get those people together under a flag of fellowship.
Fellowship? Wait, what? I don't even know.
Personship. We could get them together and they would love each other and maybe bond for life
and send each other letters and gifts and support each other in trouble and all kinds of things.
People love to do that.
Our nations are for some reason trying to destroy each other or take each other over. What's up with that?
They suck at playing beneficial mutual games and they're experts at playing rival risk games.
To the tune of trillions of dollars per year spent on war we're not having
and billions per year spent on the wars that we are having and still torturing humans,
torturing the environment, torturing each other, punishing each other, eating each other's organs on a barbecue in the afternoon.
I mean, at the scale of nations our humanity sucks.
It plays the shittiest games possible.
And that might have been okay for a little bit in modern history.
You know, 20s, 30s started getting weird then.
40s bad.
50s bad.
60s slight improvement, Cold War starts, which is another nightmare.
So we go from having active war to having ridiculous mutually assured destruction paradigms,
so that now, yeah, this is just weird.
It's really like a bad science fiction novel.
It falls to us to repair this. We have to fix this problem.
We can't just sit here talking about it.
So we have to invent games together that are better than the ones we're playing.
It shouldn't be too hard actually.
And we can start on the small scale, three to five people, you know, single iterative game moves, forge a mission,
perform it, practice like little children, right?
Have a mission, perform the mission, come back, debrief, learn, make a more challenging mission,
and just keep doing that together.
And we could even, the teams can exchange members across distances, all kinds of crazy beautiful stuff.
And I'm not really just talking about the gamification of our regular life,
because that's probably going to happen and that will not necessarily be good for us.
If whatever captures us at the group level isn't replaced,
either our very near generations will be dead or absolutely miserable in their lives.
We must replace the ridiculous games that our nations are playing
at the scale where life on earth is on the table as a commodity.
Yeah, that's got to stop.
And similarly, you know, in case it isn't obvious, I just want to highlight something I said earlier.
The United States, and not us by ourselves, each country in its own, each modern nation in its own way,
but the United States more than any other, has become a petri dish for conceptual weapons.
And so we are literally swimming in a milieu that is thick with them.
We have no skill at recognizing them together, nearly none.
And they attack what we make sense with, and the primary vector,
there's lots of others that can be used, is identity.
What is something? Who is someone? What is someone?
What is so-and-so doing? What are these people doing?
What has just been done?
And another profound element in the recipe is outrage, trigger, triggers.
So you mix triggers and identity, and you have soup.
And with that soup, you can shatter the minds, the spirit, and the communality of any people.
But particularly people whose intrinsic communality is provisional, speculative, fictional,
okay, call of the dinosaurs.
I don't know if you heard that on the mic, but a couple of male great blue herons are having a bit of an altercation here in the sky.
A bit of a dog fight, let's see what happens.
As I mentioned earlier, they're not trying to hurt each other, it's a display.
Which if you watch animals is what's going on a lot of the time.
It's a display.
We as people have to learn how to understand the structure of representational cognition,
not as users, as engineers.
That's stuff we call words.
That's stuff we call language, the stuff we call concepts.
These are actually coding.
They code for behavior, and they don't always code directly for physical behavior,
but in some cases they even do that.
And we must be able to see how these features we inherit function.
We must understand that they are tools, they don't tell us things.
We must use the tools in ways that benefit our insight, our communality, and our abilities.
It's quite a tumult up there on top of a blue heron tree.
We have to train each other in the arts of rhetoric.
And we need a basic sort of linguistics and semantics knowledge base.
And then we need something that I suppose somewhat resembles NLP,
or the capacity to look at language as coding for perspective states of mind and so on.
So that we don't usually grab the off the shelf renditions of identity, meaning, role, purpose, so forth.
Wow, that was trippy.
A comorot was swimming under the water.
And, oh wow, it just grabbed a crayfish, a baby, a small crayfish.
It's diving a lot right here.
What I saw before I saw the comorot, oh it's just porking down.
What I saw was underneath the water a trail of brown mud puffs, right?
Just traveling through the water, across about 12 feet, 15 feet.
Yeah, it's a trail of mud puffs.
We have to help each other understand the technology of language.
And we need to do that from beyond it, not from inside it.
We have to step above language.
One of the only, I'm sure there are many brilliant people, S.I. Haikawa and others, who were aware of this.
Probably any Zen student becomes aware, and many Hindu practitioners of Hindu meditation become aware that there's a problem, a bunch of problems inside language.
It's actually really sticky, tricky stuff, and it tends to reforge cognition rather than serve it.
So rather than helping you to think better, what it's actually doing is, it's a system of consecutive iterations of circumcision of identity, right?
So in order to get to, this is a tomato, I have to go from the superposition, everything, to a conceptual position, and then through the categories.
It's not an animal, right?
It's not an object, it has the unique status of food, which is both partly alive, and important commodity, and so forth.
It's got all these class and category features, right?
So what we do is we chop reality up into little bits with language, and then we believe the result of the declarations that they're from emergent.
It's catastrophically unfortunate for us, because that is the opposite of thinking.
That is the opposite of intelligence.
Intelligence pervades over language, and utilizes language carefully for goals that code for insight, redimensionalization of identity, and meaning, and role, and subject, and object, and purpose, and all of these things.
So that by the time we sort of return from that hyperspace, cognitive hyperspace, hyper-compared to language, when we come down into language, what happens is beautiful, and amazing, and useful.
Instead of trivial, tedious, and kind of mind-insulating, it tells us what to see instead of helping us to see better. That's the problem.
When language tells us what to see, we are in trouble.
Seeing is nonverbal, happens before language. Seeing in language is different, and most of us are not given.
We have suspicions about this. Nearly everyone has suspicions about language. They've had since they were small, because as children, they realized there's something wrong with the way we dealt so talking.
There's something missing in there. And also the adults can become very convinced about some feature of identity, which is clearly not true.
Insects are just pests. It's a good example. We'll kill them when you see them kill them. These are just bad.
So we have a problem here, folks, and it's really serious. If a nuclear weapon detonated in the United States, we would all know, very quickly.
But if multiple nuclear information weapons went off, none of us would know. They're going off. I'm telling you, they've been going off for quite some time.
And I'm not sure what to call it exactly. The temperature of the network of human minds local to the United States and other western nations, and perhaps all other nations.
The temperature in the water of the network of the human minds has gone way up, way fast. Something is badly wrong in there.
And it's very blatantly obvious that we are being tested.
Once again, if you can compromise the thing that detects violations, then you, whoever you are, as a thing or an entity or a process or a thrisp,
once you've done that, you have a free ride for the rest of the game. You can have anything you want from now on.
And the common people won't even be able to tell you're taking it.
There's an old, there's a really ancient joke among the genies.
The genie, a human manages to discover a genie and perhaps, let's see, perhaps instead of, yeah this is hilarious,
instead of the human freeing the genie from a lamp, the genie offers to free the human from the constraints of language.
Oh my God, this is so terrifying.
So, the human says, okay, I would really like that, that sounds amazing.
I'll get to know the actual freedom, you know, of my mind.
What, you know, what will I give you?
And the genie says, something you won't miss that isn't worth declaring.
And the human's like, okay, well, what the genie takes from the human in this terrifying parable that may have actually happened to people,
is the ability to notice that something has been taken away.
