Welcome.
If we were to break down human behavior and activity into categories, for the sake of
analyzing something related to social relationships or birth-eating, that bird was saying see
around to me. And part of the reason it's saying that is that it knows me. We play a game. And we
play a game actively. Now this is a very complex problem because in a sense, it's very difficult
to determine the ethics of a situation where on one side of the fence, so to speak, we have one being. And on the other
side of the fence, so to speak, we have another being. For example, me and the Bluejay. And over here on my side, I have access to all of the
kinds of my species. And also a ridiculously large, if wildly incomplete, catalog of food items and so forth. So I can sort of theory of mind my way to know that these birds here
live here in the city. Humans bring them various kinds of food. Occasionally, they are synanthropes. They are evolutionarily adapted to go together with humans.
So humans don't terrify them. And most birds can learn to get food from humans or can learn to accept food from humans.
Hi!
Birds are intelligent. And that is to say they are relationally sensitive. They probably understand something like the idea of being mean. Or at least they are capable of such
understanding in their own terms, not in human terms. So unfortunately in this case, so like, I'm playing a game with the Jays. It's a fun game for both of us. I get to have a relationship with the Jays, which is awesome. And maybe be a bit of a bridge between my people and their people.
Also, excellently fun and great. But I can also be stupid and I can make mistakes. In some ways I'd be surprised if the birds didn't take the relationship vastly more seriously than I do. Though I do take it seriously.
The problem is, my side of the game is giving the bird a peanut, which in game theoretical terms could be thought of as a sacrifice to give up a little bit of my wealth. As the first move, I give something first.
Instead of sitting and waiting, or throwing a rock at them, or waiting for them to poop on my head, presuming that any birds might be busily motivated.
That's funny. All the birds are acting a little bit strangely at the moment, all around me. Put it mildly. Well, the Martins aren't. They're doing their circle flying, bird hunting. I'm a daytime bat game.
I wonder if they have radar. I wonder if they do something like what the bats do and the humans just didn't discover it. It would seem that people would have tried to detect it, but in any case.
The problem is, I'm bringing something that the bird knows what it is, visually recognizes it, and it's nervous system capturing. It's like showing a person who cares about money a couple stacks of $100 bills. It's very compelling. It kind of isn't fair.
As a first move, it's kind of not fair. The problem is that we live in a desperate situation. We live in a city. It doesn't mean that it's impossible to get the bird's attention without food, or to have a relationship with it without offering food.
But offering food is a very expedient way. And also, if the bird has needs, if it has to go after things, if it's, say, foraging, right? It doesn't need physical objects, right?
There's nothing I can offer the bird as a human that will be immediately meaningful to the bird. Now, in theory, I could establish a relationship with the bird by constant visiting observation, mutual observation.
But it's very difficult to make a meaningful move that the bird will clearly understand the signal of, right? And that I will clearly understand the signal of.
I've been listening today to Jordan Peterson, big round of applause. He's somebody lots of people love to hate. I don't care. I think he's rad. I learned shit from him. I learn important ideas from him every time I listen to him.
Pretty much without fail. I'm going to try to remember a couple of those I picked up today because they were crazy good.
So, him and Sapolsky are talking about evolution and game theory. What they're really talking about, I think, isn't necessarily just evolution, per se.
It's, what time is it?
It's.
Relational behavior as a.
A.
Selection criteria.
They were talking about prisoners, dilemmas, stuff, tit for tat.
And what they defined as tit for tat was a situation in which if somebody defects, that's what I'll call it, they were calling it stabbing in the back stabbing, right? Somebody, you know, betrays the trust.
There's, there's, so there's rounds, right? And one of the things they said is that in any situation where there's no reason to believe there's going to be a second round, right? A next interaction, a next iteration.
The pressure goes toward back stabbing very quickly.
For, for complex reasons, and I'm not even sure if they say what the reasons are, but, um, this was very important hearing this one thing.
That with people who we are not sure if we will ever see each other one more time or have any further interactions.
It's risk, it's basically, um, let me see if I can remember how this played out.
So, it turns out that rounds matter a lot and the apparently triumphant strategy is in game theoretical terms, right?
Is something like cooperate until defection, um, on defection, defect, right? Hit back one time.
And then keep hitting back till defection ceases then cooperate. Something like this.
And there was a lot of complex discussion about research and animals and so forth.
Once this principle was discovered in the lab computationally using algorithms, using algorithms, excuse me, um, they went looking for it in nature and they found something that closely resembled it in, of all creatures, vampire bats.
Uh, I learned a little bit about vampire bats. So, vampire bats, um, do forage for blood. It's very interesting.
They're basically doing something very similar to what mosquitoes are doing, which is, they're using the blood to feed their children.
They don't eat the blood. They collect the blood in a throat sack. They cooperate in this activity.
And then, uh, most likely the blood undergoes some minor metabolic transformation while in the throat sack, but who knows, maybe not.
Um, and they feed that blood to their children when they return from foraging.
And so, they tested the bats and they found that if they took the blood out of a female bat, but put something in her throat sack to make it look engorged like she had a lot of blood to share, because they feed each other's children, not just their own communal feeding.
Um, and obviously, she has a bulging throat sack, but isn't feeding other children, because she has no blood to feed them, but the other bats don't know that, apparently.
And so, she gets punished for one round by the other bats not feeding her children, one round, one night, apparently.
And then, it goes back to cooperation again, if allowed to, by the scientists intervening.
Now, one could argue that the scientists are doing something so stupid, and that the other bats know that the bat has been interfered with, so that they don't, they don't want to have anything to do with her.
The interference might be contagious, right?
They could get a big lump in their throat with no blood in it.
Maybe that bats telling the other bats somehow, the scientists, you know, the aliens abducted me and they filled my throat with a bubble.
Stay away, right?
Because it's not good. They might get you, you know, too.
Um, funny.
I mean, both things are at least possible. Hopefully, the scientists try to control for that somehow, if they're intelligent at all, because they presume, apparently, that the bats don't communicate.
Which seems wildly unlikely to me, but I suppose it's possible.
And I guess there's various ways you could test them to see if they're communicating.
But I don't know. Once you involve the humans and their machines in measuring things and shit, the whole fucking situation transforms, it seems to me.
So, yeah, I don't know.
You're okay.
When they just mentioned that, in game theoretical terms, we would look at situations in an iterative, like where we're counting iterations, which is obviously, importantly, crucial.
Um, you know, it's obvious that us moderns live in a terribly disadvantaged situation where, um,
unless we're connected with extended social groups in a meaningful way, many of the people we will encounter, and this number will grow dramatically as we age,
we will only see them once, right, or they will be people like the mailman, presuming that mailmen still exist.
Um, probably in some strange places in the United States, there might still be milkmen, which I think are hilariously, brilliantly ridiculous.
The number of jokes you can make about milkmen is vast.
And I get that I live in 2024 and I'm not supposed to say postman.
Tough luck, you know. I was born in the 60s. There were no male women. There were no post-women. There were just men.
And probably part of why the mailmen were men is that stuff, you've got to be willing to kind of, like, it comes from the people who were messengers, right, who used to be, you know, to protect the message with their life.
And, you know, back in the 60s and 70s, there were some women who could fight, but the common, you know, found around the corner female probably wasn't a boxer and wouldn't be inclined to defend the mail with her life.
She's got kids at home, maybe.
In any case, mailmen.
And milkmen.
By the way, I'm going to plug Deepsea Comics' Reed Fleming, World's Toughest Milkman, as one of the most ridiculous and hilarious comic books I've ever come across.
Now where was I? Games. Okay, so.
Language isn't only a game, but it is kind of a game.
And our lives aren't merely games, but they are game-like.
And in some cases, we actually play games. Now, children left to their own devices will naturally play games.
What kinds of games they choose to play together and how they invent them together, which is what they usually do, at least at first, right?
To approximately three-year-old, two or three-year-old children in the, you know, where? Where do you put them?
You put them in a little clearing in the woods with their moms nearby and they'll probably play a lot.
And they'll invent games together, right? They'll try simple ones first, and they'll sort of test the water.
And then they'll go for games that are complex enough to test to, as Peterson said, maximize their adaptability over time.
Meaning learn, right? They will do things that help them learn.
And they will go back and forth between each other.
It's kind of a reunion thing, actually, because those two babies were probably one thing not very long ago.
And lots of cool stuff happens. And, you know, occasionally, rival-risk dynamics emerge, possibly.
I don't know how common it is among three-year-olds.
Yeah.
Babies play. And humans play, too. But they're less likely to play if they're only going to meet once, because play is a risk if you're going to play your vulnerable.
There is a kind of safety in anonymous one-meet transactions or no-transaction, right?
But we play games.
And some of the games we play are linguistic.
And those adults, most of them have a linguistic element.
So we moderns were badly impoverished, many of us, not all of us.
Some of us have rich social lives, and some of us even have meaningful social extensions that aren't just counterfeit or cultish or utilitarian.
In any situation where people's lives depend on each other, that's a really interesting mode of play.
And, of course, we say, well, this is the thing we take most seriously, which is probably true, so it may not seem like playful.
But it is very playful. It's playful in the sense that the way you pay attention and respond and become within for each other, moment to moment,
in a situation that can result in death for you or everyone around you, that's deep.
That's rich. That's real. It's almost impossible to fake that.
It's the same thing as, weirdly, it's kind of the same thing as a physical fight between, for example, human males.
Human females also fight. It's true. I agree. They do.
But I'm taking males as my example on purpose.
There's an infinite number of levels to fight, but there's sort of four major ones.
The first is, this is more about show than hurting each other.
The second is, this is mostly show, but I'm going to hurt you.
The third is, fuck you, this is serious.
And the fourth is, if I can, I'll kill you right now.
Luckily, in our society, we don't have to fight if we don't want to, this man.
But for a long time and to some degree still to this day, males are, quote, expected to be able to physically combat other males.
And whether they like it or not, they're going to experience that.
The reason I bring this up is that that kind of interaction is extremely intimate.
Even if it is rivalrous and it may not stay rivalrous,
especially if it's one of the first three kinds of fighting that I mentioned,
it may not remain rivalrous post-combat, though it could.
Or it could just, you know, the males disengage and go on to the next whatever of their life.
But it's fairly often that, I mean, it happens with some frequency that males who've been in combat
with each other experience a very deep bond, and also that males who are bonding very deeply will utilize combat
as a bonding element, right, as an expedient.
Now, I find most of that mostly to me a person who largely not completely issues violence.
That stuff seems a bit chromagnant to me.
To be able to establish the quote, unquote, this is very weird language for me to be using,
but we could establish the standards we both perceive, agree to, believe in,
and hold ourselves together over time, naturally.
And even if it had to be done in the next 15 seconds or 20 seconds,
we could pull that off too without having to punch each other in the head.
That combat is part of being human, and it's fascinating in its own right.
All of the different arts of combat styles.
There are other kinds of combat as well.
There are other kinds of rival risks.
Boy, am I going to hurt you games.
But the thing is, when we go to our job, or we pay the rent, or we buy the gas, or we eat the food,
we feed the cat, the dog, the bird, the fish that we keep indoors, we pay the insurance, we go to the doctor,
we watch the show, we listen to Darren blabbling in the afternoon.
We are playing games, but most of those games we didn't invent, and we didn't invent them together.
When I make my recordings, I am playing a game.
And when you listen, we are playing a game.
It's hard for me to imagine how few of my listeners
might be really interested in the perspectives I compose around certain features of knowledge,
or cognition, or biology, or sociology, or linguistics, or semantics, poetics.
Some portion of you, or I imagine it's small,
I'm guessing my active listener base is about five people,
and probably nearly no one listens to my recordings all the way through,
unless they've been with me a long time, and they're getting some kind of secondary benefit.
For example, the voice that helps you go to sleep.
I know about that secret use of me.
But we are playing a game.
And so we're playing games all the time, and they're games we didn't make.
Why are we playing games we didn't make?
And why aren't we making games together for each other?
Like we did when we were little.
In a way that wasn't merely distracting, it was heroic, and we were always learning together.
What? Did we stop learning? What happened?
And I will argue that a lot of what happened is representational cognition happened.
There was a big footprint of Godzilla where Bambi was standing a moment ago,
and there's a Bambi-shaped stain in the floor of that footprint.
And for many of us, that's our relationship with adulthood and school
and structured representational layers of human activity and society and shit.
I do mean and shit.
It's very confusing, and it comprises, I think in many cases, a terrible violation.
A violation is least as...
If something violates that with which you sense violations,
what's the next move?
What's the downstream effect?
And representational cognition does precisely that.
But it can also do exactly the opposite.
It can invent violations where none exists.
So it's really weird and dangerous shit, and it takes over the games.
It literally captures the capacity for playing games that humans have, commodifies it,
rips out all of the viscera of the thing, the organs, the spirit, the nobility, the luck,
rips all that shit out, puts performance in that box, and sells the box to spectators.
Why are they spectating?
They're spectating because nearly all, if not all of the games, they regularly play our dead inside,
and they play them alone.
I mean...
That's a perfect recipe for misery, despair, isolation.
And you know, for those people who want to be like, I'm one person, I am all I need, and so forth,
I'm not mocking that.
But often, it's an ironic pose.
And if they actually had an experience of being loved, positively observed, played with and for,
a goodly number of those people would flip over.
I'm just like, yeah, fuck this, let's go together.
Some of the isolates don't want to be isolated, and a good portion of the isolates who want to be isolated,
it's an ironic coping mechanism.
They think they are...
They think they are bad or dangerous or something.
But in some cases, they are. Who knows?
So why aren't we playing games that we made together?
And why aren't we making games?
I mean, we live in a society that's made for it.
The United States is made for game experiments.
And I would argue that without our knowing it,
and this is kind of the second part of the coin of this recording,
because the first part of this recording, the coin is game theory and cooperation.
