And I'm very nervous about generalizations, right?
Especially sloppy generalizations where malfeasance or malignance is generalized to an entire clade, as is happening with the bare meme.
Which I am interested in dissecting, but probably won't do here.
You know, I recall a not entirely dissimilar meme that I felt was valuable.
It's important that we hear the voices of women and that we hear the concerns of women.
Ms. R was telling me that for portions of her life,
she felt completely unsafe being around people at all.
And this constant sense of vulnerability and danger probably had a variety of anchors,
but the primary one is blatantly obvious and has a lot to do with the danger of being a woman in a world dominated by men.
And even us males know something of what that's like because most of us have been subject to the viciousness of a man or a group of males,
especially in our childhood, who bullied, beat, raped, denigrated, spat on, kicked us.
Whereas, you know, how many of us were subject to gang violence from females?
Not none, but nearly none.
In terms of boys anyway.
So look, I get it. I remember this meme where somebody asked women what they would do if there were...
How would it affect their life if there were a curfew for males, like a 6pm curfew or something?
They said things like, I'd wear a dress, you know, or I'd go for a walk.
In other words, I'd feel okay doing ordinary human things.
And I'd feel safe doing ordinary human things.
And I think that's real. I absolutely acknowledge that.
We forget, unless we hear very directly, unless there's a context in which women can speak openly about their experience.
Unless there's a context in which women can speak openly about their experience and what it feels like we won't know,
and our suppositions won't be sufficient.
So I absolutely support that.
But the generalization...
That happens where the character of my gender is disposed of or denigrated.
That is...
That's like hate speech.
That's genderist invective.
The fact that men are more dangerous than women, probably true generally speaking, depends on the situation.
Not always true.
There are many men who will lay down their lives for a woman they don't even know.
Right now, right? Instantly.
So the idea that men are just bad...
I'm not a friend to that idea.
On the other hand, again, I do support...
You know, let me put it this way.
Let's start a conversation where we mutually support each other and create a context where women are safe,
and free, and healthy and happy in all our social contexts and beyond.
Let's do that.
Rather than just focusing on what's bad, wrong, and terrible about men, true though that may sometimes be,
the wise move is to educate our children and each other and create a social and a relational context
in which misbehavior is immediately intervened in.
I'm going to pause here for a minute because there's something going on in the gardens that I do not entirely understand,
and I'm going to have to walk through it, so I'll be back.
You know, it's the same...
The money we spend on war doesn't help us.
The resources we spend on indictment and combat are far better spent on establishing a relational context
in which we become better humans together.
We become better beings together. We become better spirits together for each other.
And we need to be really cautious, especially today, about divisive narratives.
And I'm very concerned because I can see a kind of storm of little psyops of divisive narratives bubbling up in American anti-culture.
I can't speak for how it is elsewhere, but that shit is pathologically hyper-contagious and extremely dangerous.
It breeds factionation, and it breeds suspicion, and once you're suspicious, half your assets are missing.
This is the problem with producing dialectics of indictment.
And it hurts people who... it makes victims out of innocence.
None of us chose... well, I don't know, that's actually true.
It's not clear that we chose our incarnate genders.
And, you know, I've spent much of my life very concerned about how I am seen as a man in the world by women.
So much so that it's been nearly impossible for me to approach women for whom I had affection.
Because I'm so terrified of being seen as a bad person.
And, you know, one could argue, oh, you know, that's actually a shadow of something that's a lie.
You actually are a bad person secretly, and that's why you're so scared.
Okay, great, I understand the psychological argument.
I don't really think that's most of what's going on if it's any of what's going on.
It is profoundly challenging.
And I respect and want to hear from women about these challenges that they experience and face.
But it's also profoundly challenging to be a man, and it's even more challenging to be a sensitive man.
Much more challenging.
So why can't we create a context and a conversation in which we can supportively listen to and understand each other without indicting,
without adding to a problem that's already blatantly obvious.
And let's be really clear, much of this problem isn't a problem of men versus women.
It's a problem of developmental contexts that are fundamentally toxic, media that is fundamentally toxic,
the catastrophic miseducation of our children and each other by media.
This really comes back to something resembling education.
What is the developmental milieu in which we and our children develop?
That's where the problem is.
It's not men are bad or women are helpless, which of course was never true.
Though, you know, granted the disproportionate physical force that men can usually table in comparison to women does create a problem in any civilization
where the personhood, integrity and spirit of the women isn't revered, isn't respected, or women are seen as objects.
In case it isn't obvious, men are objectified too.
This is a different kind of objectification.
We're objectified as combatants, warriors, things like this.
Now I'm not sure that the terrain over which I've wandered today is all that valuable.
I'm not even sure if I'll publish this recording, though I probably will.
I'm not particularly proud of it, because in a way it's a little bit self-conflicted.
I've been speaking against the idea of a mind that indicts,
and I can see the irony here in that I am inditing a mind that indicts.
I can jump one level up and see the problem.
So I will acknowledge that, and we'll see if I decide to publish this or not.
It's the first recording I've made in quite a while, and I've been very under the weather for a couple days,
so I'm not sure how sharp I am, but we'll see what happens.
If I do publish this, I thank you for those of you who joined me,
and I appreciate your support, interest, enthusiasm, and hope that we will continue to learn and grow together.
May your way be beautiful, and your life be joyful.
Bye-bye for now.
