or tell me that it's a law, that there are 79 genders.
Yeah, that's nonsensically ridiculous.
It's also a symptom of a breakdown in an aspect of human social relation and cognition
that I think we should be particularly concerned with and vigilant in.
Now look, my opinions aren't as fundamentalist as they sound here,
but we're not yet having a conversation, right?
I'm speaking ex-cathedra.
This is my recording, I'm saying what's on my mind.
I'm totally willing to enter into meaningful, generative conversations about such topics
with people who are more, you know, when we are interested in learning together,
that's very different from declaration,
but for the moment this isn't a conversation and I'm speaking.
So I agreed to teach the class with Richard and he was like,
look dude, I really want you to have the experience of being in front of a classroom and teaching.
I think you're made for this and it'll go really well.
So here's what I'll do.
We'll call you a reader.
I'll get you a little bit of pay.
You can actually do some reading and grading of papers.
But what you'll really be doing is showing up for every class and co-teaching the class with me.
And so I did that thing.
And in fact, not while the class was going, but after the class had stopped,
I ended up dating one of the girls in the class who was quite a bit younger than me.
It's true. I did. Willow. She was awesome.
So we had a class of about, you know, we had three classes of approximately 30 people,
ranging in age from 17 to 27, primarily white.
There was one African American young man in that class.
Primarily B to A, students, high school graduates, B to A, grade point average, 90 people, Americans.
Upper middle class white folk, you know, in a fairly upper middle class city.
I've said this before, but I'm going back to the meme, right, where we used to teach Latin and Greek in high school
and now we're teaching remedial English in college. Remedial English.
Think about the difference in cognitive sophistication between somebody who can learn and speak Latin and Greek
and someone who cannot speak English, their only language.
So of the 90 students, approximately five of them were capable of forming a written sentence in English.
Two of them could compose a paragraph reliably.
They are in junior college. They have graduated high school somehow.
They cannot write the single language that they mostly speak.
That was in approximately 1994-5, right?
Who knows what is, you know, I shrivel up inside to imagine what the situation is today.
If it was that bad back then, and I had no idea that anything resembling this was even possible.
You know, having been a reader my whole life and being somewhat hyperlexic,
it never occurred to me that the people around me might be incapable of writing English.
I was staggered. I knew there were problems with American education.
I had no idea how catastrophically severe they were.
It was mind-blowing to me.
We didn't have time to teach them how to write sentences or paragraphs
because we were trying to teach them how to write essays,
and they were so catastrophically unprepared that, effectively, as teachers, our goal was impossible.
We managed to do a little bit of it.
So, again, you know, the women who attacked me on Facebook, with all due respect, which isn't much,
they're attacking someone who's sounding an alarm bell about the future of their children,
of their families, of their progeny, and they're attacking his character? Really?
Like, what he's saying is so right and so important
that there's no possibility of his character entering into the conversation at all.
It's as if something in these people is offended by the possibility
that they might have to take facts seriously.
That they might have to attend. Look, there are all kinds of people who I don't agree with
or who propose perspectives that I dislike or don't agree with.
If I were then to dismiss the entire uvra of their creative or intellectual output,
the poverty would land in me, right? It would land in me, in my heart, in my mind.
The idea that we should cancel or throw away the knowledge, the intelligence, the insight
of people with whom we find some reason to feel uncomfortable.
That's the death knell. That's the ringing of the bell of a kind of apocalypse
in consciousness, awareness, intelligence, insight.
If you wanted to ruin an entire generation of humans, just get them doing that.
If you let that monster in the door, I can't wait to see what comes after that.
There are certain mistakes that we have to not ever make
if the possibilities of our intelligence are going to survive.
One of the women just said, I fiercely disagree with you
when I explained what an ad hominem attack is and means
and that unfortunately for her opinion, what the quote said was a fact.
We are teaching remedial English in college. We have been doing that in the United States
for at least 20 years, probably more like 40,
which means we are catastrophically failing to educate our children.
And if that's not interesting enough to get their attention
and if the fact that they have a character problem with someone who's saying that
is more important, do you see the problem?
Like the wrong thing is getting emphasis here, for sure, not maybe.
I don't know anything about the guy. I don't care who the guy is.
He was a right-wing asshole, good for him.
What he was saying was true and important.
As Eric Weinstein often says, there are exactly zero restaurants
where I walked in the door and signed up for the entire menu.
Yes, I'll have everything.
And it's similar with spiritual or intellectual
or any kind of thinker at all.
All of the brilliant men and women who have been the mothers and fathers of my mind
proposed things that were wrong or things that I completely didn't agree with.
Alfred Korzybski, one of the most important thinkers of the 20th century,
largely ignored, was insane.
He said that criminals having ostensibly given up the right
to participate in the human project
should have their bodies taken away from them
and be the subjects of scientific experimentation
for the cause of bettering humanity.
That is one of the most insane things I've ever heard in my life.
Does that mean I should disabuse myself of the entire subject of nonaristotelian logic,
one of the most important features or forms of human cognition I've ever encountered?
Fuck no. Korzybski was a genius. He was also partly insane.
And many geniuses are partly insane.
Many of the geniuses we revere are partly insane.
That doesn't entitle us to dismiss the incredible insight
that they suffered and made sacrifices to bring to the experience of being human.
Thankfully, I'm not particularly interested in ideological jousting on Facebook.
But in this one case, I was willing to pull my dagger and point out the ad hominin problem.
And I was shocked to see one of the women who responded, who's a friend, a Facebook friend.
Hey, sweetness. I love you.
I think it's the scarf. Yeah.
When I have my scarf tied to my purse strap, dogs often look at me weird and want to approach me.
And I think it's because they've never seen that particular feature.
And it's visually. It stands out visually.
So, yeah, one of the women is a friend of mine on Facebook
and very intelligently attempted to explain why she also didn't agree with the ad hominem.
I really have a hard time with people who don't agree with the rhetorical fallacies.
Do they even understand them?
I mean, these are the figures of speech that are not merely the catalogue of sophisticated methods for manipulating human thought, concern, values.
You know, sophistry is a problem when we don't recognize it because we can be manipulated by language.
But the arts of rhetoric form essentially the foundations of the possibility of articulate linguistic communication.
Not only should we not dismiss them, we should be teaching our children these things.
And in, you know, the privileged classes of Europe, primarily the males, yes, it's true, they were taught something called the Trivium.
And I think this was like rhetoric, geometry, and one other thing that I can't remember.
It meant like the three important things.
But one of them was rhetoric, and that's not an accident.
People who are not educated in rhetorical sense and the capacity for complex rhetorical speech.
You know, everyone loves Shakespeare and part of the reason they love him is that Shakespeare, whoever that might have been, was a master of the tropes, of the rhetorical tropes.
And that's part of what makes his work so profound, presuming that it was a male who wrote that stuff.
And actually, I think there was another feature of Shakespeare that probably largely goes unnoticed, except among scholars, which is that, is this a queen cell?
From a beehive? I don't know. No, I don't think so. Looks similar, but it isn't.
Okay, let's see what's going on here.
You know, Shakespeare basically was a hyper system of consciousness extending over a number of brilliant actors, a specific theatrical milieu or array of milieus,
and the intelligences common in the rhetorical and sophistic network of minds in which the audience and the societies participated or which they forged together.
So that's not like a regular human at all. That's someone who's touching what I call the Cognition.
That mind isn't merely human, and it's blatantly obvious that this is so.
It's not dissimilar with other prodigies. People who rise up above the idea of the individual and the scope of an individual's intelligence into the sort of stratosphere of human cognition and concern in general
achieve a kind of superposition over the possibilities of an individual mind. It's blatantly obvious that many poets, Rilke, Rumi, others,
whether or not they were conscious of this, they certainly practiced it.
I would argue that Joan Didion is another example, as is Eva Braun, a philosopher of incredible intellectual breadth and depth.
You know, I was raised by feminists. I'm almost a feminist. I used to go to a national organization of women meetings, not claiming that gives me any special privilege or cachet or gravitas.
But the intellectuality of the 1970s feminists was some of the first actual intelligence in humans that I ever directly encountered.
You better believe I have respect and reverence for that, until and unless that fundamental intelligence for which I have respect and reverence becomes weaponized.
At that point, I don't merely diverge, I oppose.
There is a kind of respect and reverence that we extend to all beings and to all persons.
When I see people, and there is similarly a kind of respect and reverence, that we extend to skillful people.
And when I see something like the opposite of this, when I see people attack an entire gender, which is what is going on right now with the bare meme, effectively.
And I'd like to decompose that a bit, but I'll hold off on that so that I can stay on topic for a minute.
When I see a group, when I see ideological, the rise of sort of ideological, weaponized ideological invective, character assault, the dehumanization of males.
And there's no justification for that. None. Historically, we have lived under the ages of various modes of patriarchy. Bad humans are bad humans, regardless of their gender, and the fact that there are bad males does not pervade over the entire gender.
The fact that there are bad people doesn't pervade over entire cohorts either. This urge to generalize wrongdoing for the sake of indictment is a disease that leads to catastrophic sequelae that none of us want.
I mean, maybe some of us do want it. I don't know. Maybe there are people who actually want a devastating, unlivable future forged by the appearance of virtue under the flag of virtue above a complex array of weapons that obliterate intelligence, insight, community, family, tradition.
All these things. I guess I'm kind of ranting a little bit, but I find a lot of this upsetting. At the point when I began to become an adolescent, I was no longer allowed to attend the now meetings, and I began to realize that the feminists were anti-male.
Back then, I didn't really understand, though my mother had tried to explain to me that some of the women in the group were lesbians. I didn't really understand what that meant. Some of them didn't seem particularly feminine to me.
And these days, one's not even supposed to say words like that. As if one's not supposed to suppose that there is a relatively intrinsic, not merely scripted aspect to the gender interiority and expression of human beings.
And while I will agree that some degree of that is not wrong, it's not an entirely wrong idea. You can't throw the whole idea out the window just because there's gender scripting.
And this is a very complex topic, which I'm addressing rather cursorily at the moment. And for that, I apologize, but it's not really my goal to get into the politics of gender here.
Rather, I'm trying to talk about a situation where what we might think of as left-wing intellectuals are attacking foundational principles that underlie the possibility of intellectual discourse, perception, perspective, and so forth.
Anyone is welcome to think that the solidity of concrete isn't a fact. It's a patriarchal projection. Well, you know, trip and fall and you're going to find out that there's a fact right underneath you.
So if you think there are no facts or the facts are just a construct, you're wrong. You're just going to be wrong. In fact, if you think there are no facts, let's suppose someone just says something like, well, you know, people just make up facts to manipulate other people.
Okay, that does occasionally occur. That's not not happening. But that doesn't we have the same problem of the generalization of a portion of a curve to the entire curve. If you come and tell me there's really no such thing as facts, well, then what you've just undermined your own statement.
Because what you are saying, in effect, is that it is a fact that there are no facts. You see the problem here? Truth in language and concept is real. It's not real the same way physical reality is real.
It's conceptually real, it's linguistically real, and it's cognitively real. And it can also be relationally real. So there are actual facts. You know, my friend Dr. Kay was talking to me last night and helping me to disambiguate my illness and figure out whether it was time for me to go to the emergency room or not.
And quite frankly, if there was an emergency room for human intelligence, our civil, our culture should go directly there right now. Because this shit is failing.
And part of the problem is that America is, as I've said before, we're a petri dish for every kind of conceptual and linguistic PSYOP imaginable. We're just getting PSYOP injections a thousand times per minute from 5,000 different bad actors.
I can't wait to see how our children are going to fare in a situation like that. We've got to create some kind of immunity for each other against that. And perhaps that's part of what I'm trying to do here.
And maybe even to bolster my own immunity to some degree, because I have to try to understand how to cope with situations where people tell me, you know, ad hominem attacks are things we should do, right? The ad hominem perspective, that's the right one.
You know, enacting rhetorical fallacies is intelligence. That's visionary. That's the way of the future.
It was so strange to see the articulate, the very articulate woman objecting. And her argument was, I wish I could just state it, maybe I could go find it and say it.
What I'll probably try to do is later I'll put it in the comments just so that I don't have to depart right now from the recording.
Also, it would take me a bit, and I don't want to lose my train of thought, even if my train of thought is not particularly coherent at the moment.
So what was my friend Dr. K saying? He was saying that he's reading a book with an argument between a neuroscientist and a mathematician, and the neuroscientist is trying to claim that mathematics has no privileged status among the languages.
One of my Raven friends is here with me. He's like a foot from me giving him peanut, which they really like.
Now, this has been an ongoing conversation between Dr. K and I, although mostly we're on the same page.
So Dr. K is a vicious opponent of Wittgenstein and Heidegger, also of Jung.
Dr. K claims that Jung was a Nazi, and we shouldn't listen to him.
And by the way, Dr. K is committing the ad hominem fallacy there, because Heidegger was a Nazi and Jung was a Nazi.
We should largely dismiss them, which of course I do not agree with.
If Hitler himself had said intelligent things, I would take them up and not reject them simply because they came out of the mouth of a maniacal, methodic tyrant.
I don't care about the character when it comes to intelligence and insight. I don't care.
Consider the source. Well, if it's food, maybe. If it's intelligence, not so much.
I suppose I could invert my perspective and forge an argument where I'd call it the poisoned pool argument.
You don't want fish from a poisoned pool, so you don't want intelligence from minds that are bad or evil.
Okay, yeah, I could propose and pursue such a line.
I'm disinclined to at the moment, but just be aware that I'm not an ideologue, and I'm happy to entertain perspectives that oppose my own.
And if I weren't, I would be catastrophically incapable of learning.
A friend of mine the other day on Facebook, a very close friend, said,
when was the last time you had a conversation with someone who disagreed with you?
When was the last time you entertained the perspective of someone with whom you disagreed, something like this?
And for me, the last time was usually today, maybe yesterday.
I regularly, there's an old euphemism about being able to entertain perspectives alien to your own concern, belief, habit, and so forth.
And how crucial that is to philosophical discovery and understanding and awareness and intelligence, and I agree.
But let's start out with an agreement that we're here to see better together, to help each other see better together.
If we begin with that agreement, and that's our motivation and our goal, we're in pretty good shape, right?
We're unlikely to get trapped or stuck in the weeds of our own bias, habit, et cetera.
And those weeds are thick and sticky.
I don't want to get stuck in those weeds.
I don't trust my own bias, but that doesn't mean I don't trust anything I think either.
Some of my biases have crucially important foundations that I'm disinclined to dispose of on a whim.
On the other hand, my pet biases often are very blinding, but I need somebody intelligent enough to show me how the structure of my thought is failing me.
And I have a great wingman, Ms. R.
Yeah, that wingman really helps me because Ms. R's mind is very different from mine and tends toward uncollapse, toward specificity,
whereas even though I can do both, I tend to go toward specificity.
