Hello, everybody. Welcome.
It is perhaps May 3rd. Time has been a little strange for me lately because I've been laid up.
After having a salad a couple days ago, my body freaked out.
So I've mostly been in bed and doing a whole bunch of sweating.
I'm not sure what I have in mind to share today. There's no organized colloquium.
But it's been a little while since I made a recording.
So I thought I'd have a go at it and just see where it goes.
You know, a lot of our experience is structured by a broad array of expectations that are instilled in us
by the cultures we grew up in and the places where we live.
And we should be willing to imagine that what it would mean to be human would be radically different
if we were growing up in a different context.
Oh, yes. The calla lilies and their predilection to attract, at least around here, crab spiders, which I love.
They're really awesome. There's a male. You can see a male in this one.
I was speaking with a friend and she was talking about her daughter's education in Italy
and how radically different it is from what would happen to her here.
And notice I say happen to her because there's a huge difference between being subjected to something
that effectively ruins your mind and perhaps your heart
and being drawn into a rich developmental conversation that nourishes and supports your development.
When she brought her daughter to Italy, the educational system there, they were doing things
when she was 10 and 11 that we wouldn't do here, if ever, until college.
And I've heard this story so many times, so many times before.
Although it's possible to acquire a well-rounded and rich education in the United States,
it's profoundly difficult, add or expensive.
And if there's one thing I want to be absolutely clear about, it's that in nations as sophisticated and wealthy as ours,
there are at least two things for which there should be no charge whatsoever,
and those are education and healthcare.
If we can afford $23 trillion to support the military,
we could take one of those trillions and educate our people and their children.
And we could take another of those trillions and give them healthcare that was actually profound, advanced,
sophisticated, and effective.
In any country where healthcare is a business, you have a fundamental conflict of interest,
and the same is true of education.
If people want to argue, like, we should all pull ourselves up by our own bootstraps,
my argument is go make a country where you do that and leave us alone.
Just get the hell out of here.
I remember I often have complex conversations with cabbies.
Cab drivers are a particularly interesting kind of human,
and I would argue that they were much more interesting before the advent of GPS and electronic navigation,
because they had to have a map.
Their minds were maps.
And I had a couple of close friends who were cabbies in the 90s.
One of them was a poet. I wonder if I can recall his name.
It's been so long since I thought of him.
But what a brilliant and sensitive human being he was.
Ken Wainio was his name.
And I think I published one of his stories in my magazine, Cyanosis.
Oh, by the way, if any of you want a copy of that magazine, you can make a comment,
and you can have a copy for about ten bucks.
It's more of a book. It's a large book rather than a magazine.
In the 90s, I was publishing this art and literary journal because I saw the Republicans going after arts and education
with the obvious agenda of creating a situation where the general American populace
was ignorant enough to just be directly manipulable by propaganda,
which you can see is an agenda which has largely, if not completely, succeeded a very short time later.
Tragically.
But I remember not too long ago, I was in a cab with a driver from Pakistan,
and he was talking about their educational system and the education that he received there,
and what happened when he came to the United States in an attempt to continue it.
And basically, when he was like ten, eight, nine, ten, they were teaching the children advanced calculus, right?
Or was here, and when he came here, he had to go through some of the, you know,
in order to get a degree, he had to go through some of the American education stuff for which he had no records in the U.S.
And the education that he received at eight, nine, or ten in Pakistan was superior to the understanding of the teacher
at the college he was going to here to the degree that he was constantly correcting the teacher.
You know, I myself left school when I was twelve,
and I recall the situation last week where,
you know, I was on Facebook, unfortunately, probably for everyone,
and there was a picture meme of some guy, and it said something to the effect of,
you know, we've gone from teaching Latin and Greek in high school to teaching remedial English in college,
and some para-feministic females were yelling about the fact that, you know,
this guy was some kind of right-wing idiot, and we shouldn't listen to him.
And I said, you know, I don't think it's a good idea to dismiss the truth based on your evaluation of someone's character.
That's a formal example of the ad hominem rhetorical fallacy, which is to fail to address the subject,
and to instead concern yourself with character assault.
And a number of women, some of them quite intelligent, piled onto my comment and just started telling me what an idiot I am
and how the ad hominem fallacy doesn't even matter.
It's not really a thing.
And I was like, yeah, if we're going to start dismissing knowledge and truth based on the character of someone who says something,
you can, like, it's the end of rational intelligence. It's over with.
You know, it's not untrue that they were, you know, making accusations of patriarchy and colonialism and blah blah.
You know, the general, the common left-wing, these days largely bullshit arguments.
And what I mean by bullshit is it's not bullshit that there's been patriarchy.
It's not bullshit that that's caused harm.
It's not bullshit that there's been colonialism all over the place
and the catastrophic devastation of cultures and peoples and women and children and men and all these things.
All of that's true.
But it's possible to weaponize this concern into something that makes us dumber every time we make a move.
And that's what I mean by bullshit.
The weaponization of the possibility of virtue.
We should be very cautious about prosecutorial historicity.
Because once we become very concerned with prosecution and indictment,
most of our intelligence is going to be subject to the costs of those behaviors.
And those costs are not sustainable.
You have to be really careful with what you do with a mind and what you choose to do with it.
Suspicion, indictment, prosecution.
They maybe have their place in certain circumstances,
but if that becomes the primary intellectual agenda, it's over for human intelligence.
Like that whole prospect of insight or intelligence collapses into war mind, righteous indignation.
I was very surprised to see a couple of women who were clearly quite articulate and intelligent and well-read
dismissing the ad hominem argument that I made, which was not only valid,
you know, apparently there's no such thing as facts anymore.
And I get the whole idea that facts are relative.
I'm a fucking, I study semantics.
I'm not an idiot.
In fact, I realized that facts are relative a long time ago, more than 20 years ago.
But there are domains in which we must rely on,
we've got to have a foundation of some kind that is trustworthy.
And if we're going to decide that there are no facts, that we all just get to make up whatever facts we like,
I don't think anyone is capable of understanding the cascade of social, intellectual, ecological,
and relational catastrophes that they're from will ensue for certain.
The idea that nothing is true simply because bad men said it,
or nothing is true because truth is a patriarchal con game, a colonial war game.
You know, there's a tiny bit of, there's a seed.
Wow, this guy's a genius.
There's this guy who paints here and his spirit of his art is really profound.
Yeah, that stuff's fucking leafily toxic.
See, I was very surprised because here's the problem.
You go back to what this man may have actually said.
We're just talking about a meme here, but they're trying to do a character attack on a guy who's saying something that's so true and important.
What the hell is the goal?
We're going to dismiss what he said because we think he was a bad man or, you know, an avatar of the patriarchy or the right.
Jesus, so here's the actual problem.
I left school when I was 12.
I'm a self-educated person.
The technical term is autodidact.
And I'm precociously self-educating.
Many of my closest friends are similar.
And some of them are, you know, at or above my own par.
What shall I do with this lady?
She'll get crushed if she stays here, so I guess I got to try to move her.
Let's see what's going on here.
Give me a moment.
Come on, sweetness.
Yeah, just climb on the leaf. You're okay.
I want to get you off the path.
That's it. Good girl. Good girl.
That was a female bumblebee.
And let me be really blunt about one thing.
That bumblebee is female.
The gender that can reproduce, let's be clear.
It's not a joke. It's not a concept.
It's a physical situation.
In any case, I'm a self-educated person.
Briefly, I attended college for the first time when I was 24.
I took a couple of classes, one class in music theory.
The teacher was horrible and hated teaching the class.
One poetics class, also a really bad teacher.
And one, I took a class English 1A, which was essay writing.
And the teacher of that class at Santa Rosa Junior College
was a man named Richard Speaks,
a relatively brilliant poet in his own right,
a fairly radical teacher, very 60s,
Zen in the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance kind of guy,
regularly flirted with female students, married one of them,
who was probably 25 years his junior,
targeted for a lot of attacks on his, what, romantic acumen.
And, you know, occasionally, I love a little criticism at him.
I wouldn't say that he was a chauvinist.
I think he was fascinated and intrigued by women.
He was an older guy, wrote a motorcycle, rolled his own cigarettes.
He was a really good teacher.
He was more like a rock star than an English professor.
And I took a class with him and he tried to convince me to become a teacher
because he said that he saw in me the gift
that would grow into something really amazing.
But at the time, I couldn't understand undertaking a project
that would require five years to complete.
I wasn't even sure I would live five more years,
and this is a problem with not just my generation,
but the generation's successive to mine,
where we find it incredibly difficult to believe in anything resembling a future,
and therefore we can neither plan nor develop one.
This is tragic and appropriate.
Also, Speaks asked me to teach with him the next semester,
and teach the English 1A class.
We were teaching Barry, what's his name,
Crossing Open Ground, Naturalist Author.
We were teaching Siddhartha and E.B. White,
who by the way, if you've never read any essays by E.B. White,
you're missing out on something profoundly.
I mean, all of them are geniuses.
Also Joan Didion, oh my God.
Yeah, she became one of my heroes and profoundly influenced my writing.
In fact, many of my heroes are women.
And when I say that, I want to again indicate,
I'm talking about the actually existing gender that reproduces.
And if anyone out there wants to have some kind of a fight with me over this,
go ahead and raise your sword.
I'll meet you on the battleground, we will go together to war.
I'm not saying there are only two genders.
I'm saying that biologically, in humans,
fundamentally there are two genders.
Ideologically, different situation.
And I don't know why I'm feeling so militant about this today,
but the idea that someone might attack me
and claim that I'm making shit up to believe in a single reproductive gender
and kind of anything else
is a symptom of a catastrophic array
of linguistic and conceptual distortions.
Ideological distortions.
I have no problem with anyone who wants to be seen in a certain way.
I have a huge problem with anyone who wants to police my language over that
