We don't actually belong to any true collective.
So we either have to invent a fictional one inside ourselves kind of ongoingly, as thought
and thinking even, in part.
Or we do something more wonderful than that, and we have, I don't know what to call it,
we have a unity within where each of the elements is within four, the other elements.
And perhaps nature and learning, intelligence, wonder, origins, discovery.
So we wouldn't really want to become the road runner while we're awake.
That would just be dreaming.
No, the goal is, I guess, not a goal.
And has a lot to do with inhabiting a position of union with the history and the origins
of our world, minds themselves, nature, living ecologies, the history of humanity, in its
actual real aspect, us, and every living thing that we relate and see, ignore, classify,
dissect, analyze, sell.
Instead.
So a position in relation, true relation, in constant recognition of origin coming into
being, which essentially looks like children, all of them, every living place and thing.
But together, one union with endless, astonishing members, each of whom reflect each other, each
of whom is with and for each other, in a continuum, flowing into us now.
That recognition is so vitalizing and so overwhelming, and so beautiful and creative
and prodigious and intelligent, that nothing else can become it.
It is unbecoming to do anything else.
And of course, in relation with the structures and the boxes and the cities and the culture
and the dead calendars and such, the watches, tick-tock, it can be difficult to preserve
a sense of orientation.
And yet, ironically, it's much more difficult not to.
And all the things that happen when we don't, to ourselves and our minds and others, with
whom we are here, for whom we are here, are far worse than if we could do the small amount
of work and struggle to pierce the membrane a little bit, to bring something true through
from within, from union, from unity, beyond all the fictions, just as a hand of the history
of human hope, and wonder, adoration, and possibility.
And that's a self we can't define, and every definition impoverishes it.
Yet, we can learn to remember and see, play, and become many different ways from anything
we've seen, things that don't become religions, but arts of our humanity, and a relationship
in and as nature.
A hand is not what it holds, but a self can become very confused and think it is that
upon which it has some grasp.
Well, if you travel up the wrist, hopefully, where the grasp of that hand is originating,
there is a living, flowing, endlessly ancient, astonishingly eternal, and unimaginably intelligent.
Hmm, what is there, it is not a fire, it is, it is an incarnation of all of the orders
and histories and lineages of origin.
It is not one incarnation, right?
But like we might even imagine, the flower, a carnation, with all its many petals flowing
into being, that is incarnating, it is an incarnating incarnation.
But in the soul and consciousness, the self is kind of a ghost, and one of the things
that's most useful to have some direct awareness of is that in some way the waking self is
a joke.
It's a bit of a jest that the soul of our being is having on with us while awake, and
it's quite astonishing when one has the actual experience of recognizing this.
Yet this is the implication of the cartoons, that actually the waking self is a very sophisticated
learning playground for the dreaming soul.
This is a beautiful and hilarious thing to recognize, and is the source of many of the
things that we find humor in, because the dreaming self has a very different take on
identity and relation, and it's always with us while we're awake, so that when we suddenly
see from a radically new angle, there's the experience of humor.
This is almost the dreaming self recognizing, or the waking self recognizing that it had
been dreaming in a way all along, and suddenly someone has come and highlighted a path or
a route that links the features by which it can see, of course I always knew that, or
I've laughed about that inside but never said anything, or I've seen something similar
myself, quote unquote myself, yet we see truly within for each other.
Then we can remember to see within for the history and future of life on earth, first
and our humanity within that gentle union.
Then we will begin to see, we will learn what it means to have eyes, for until then we will
see with what we're grasping, what we're holding onto, and as you can imagine the hand-like
eyes of the mind are easily confused by that which can be grasped in concept language form,
or thought.
They begin to see that reality is what can be grasped, and yet this is the opposite of
any meaningful way of being ourselves.
The arts of the intellect are all valuable and pure in and of themselves, none of them
are implicitly lethal, and yet when they escape their confines and begin to declare reality
or identity, value or relationship to us, then they have become lethal, and then the
grasp is not a living grasp at all but a kind of a death grip.
So we can release the idea of a self, we can let go and just like our hands have no possessions,
all the things our hands can do, they have no way to possess them, they have no place
to possess them, and the self is much like this, yet while awake it is hand-like as if
the fingertips are eyes, it forgets it has a wrist and starts chasing.
Something like completeness, yet its origin is in, a living, intelligent incompletingness,
as much as it is in anything that can or may be preserved across gaps.
