We've often heard the question, what is a self?
What is the self?
Who am I?
And we've had this question lots of different ways.
I was listening to Krishnamurti addressing such a question recently, it was humorous to
watch him.
In the garden that I'm observing, a rat is carefully scurrying between some bushes.
And the wind is moving the leaves of the trees.
And all of the garden is moving, each aspect, uniquely, almost musically.
The self isn't anything.
In fact, what we might say is nothing to get too concerned about, or even just, not
really there that way.
But that's saying too much, too simply.
One thing we can notice is that whatever the self might be, there's the rat again scurrying
between protected positions in a living calendar interrupting me, alive in the sunlight.
I'm outside of a box, even though I'm in the structure of it, it's framing all around
me and in my mind.
I can see the garden, I'm with the garden, in the past and the future, a little fly.
I am here, but who am I?
What is my self?
Well in every frame that I bring or encounter, real or fictional, imagined, linguistic, analytical,
how I will be will change dramatically, and find a loan in a box.
I may be disoriented for all the time and around me is dead and the movement is, what
is the movement?
What is moving in a box?
To what rhythms does it move, what music does it obey?
Where does it originate?
So whatever a self might be, who am I, isn't really a question that's very meaningful without
a framework.
And if we have a fictional or linguistic framework, the question suddenly is connotated by that
framework so that if I'm drinking a cup of tea and writing a concerto, that will change
very suddenly if there is an earthquake.
Or if the doorbell rings or the text comes on a device, if I hear a sound like a child
crying or a bell, my self will change.
So who am I is a process of changing in relation with what we could think of as frameworks and
I think that these frameworks often dominate us and sort of exclude the possibility of
a self and so we're left asking who am I in a conflict of largely fictional frameworks
and boxes and screens and electronic signals, fictional imperatives, fictional collectives
based on language and commerce and structured, quote, society, unquote, what we are and do
together.
Apparently believing there is nothing else or little else we could or should or are capable
of doing sometimes.
And so this question, who am I, comes already from a place of something's missing.
If it weren't, the question is almost the evidence of its departure, parting problem
and some framework, there's a question, who am I?
But what's interesting is the relationship between the question
and the one presenting it.
Or even the question who are you, for we then imagine that someone might be able to tell
us who they are.
Of course we mean perhaps give me some pivots around which to imagine who you might be and
be becoming so that I may have some to determine perhaps almost in thought who I should be
and be becoming in relation with you.
So now we find out that not only are the cells not discrete things existing, but actually
they discover what to be and become together according to many complex variables.
So that were there really cells there before they met?
Of a kind maybe, we might call it habits of persisting across gaps.
We had habits of maintaining a self-like quality outside of actual relationships and nature
each other and true developmental activity.
We sort of built little boats that we could climb in and go across these gaps.
The gaps in all the different aspects of our lives, our work, our sleep, our food, our
relationships with others, the depth or truth of them, the conflicts, the joys, the victories,
the losses, the births and deaths, etc.
The days, the hours, the minutes, all the gaps.
So that a self quote unquote is essentially a kind of slapped together vehicle to survive
and cross between gaps in all kinds of frameworks that aren't real mostly or are conflicted
with the real five ways to Sunday and in which we participate or feel we must or are compelled
to we whoever that we is.
So there's something confusing going on there.
But there's some tropes that can kind of help us out.
So the first thing is that I think our language confuses us about what it means to be separate.
We seem to think that the separateness is the true part.
And then we add the connection maybe.
And in everything in nature and reality, physics and everywhere, something else is true.
Which is that unity descends into orders of apparent distinction that are new forms of
unity in distinction.
And some of these are so elaborate that you get living planets down there somewhere in
the process and within those you get minds with questions.
So there's something quite amazing going on and if we wanted to make a bucket like model
of it we could somewhere in the dimension that we'll call origin put a conical upside
down bucket and in rings around that bucket we'll put holes, maybe in a spiral.
And some kind of water pours into that bucket and down here you get universes which pour
into galaxies, which pour into star systems and black holes and other fascinating phenomenon.
And then you get our star and its whole history, the whole history of the formation of this
part of the galaxy, our star itself, its whole birth process, the formation of the solar
system, the origins of the earth and the moon and the planets and there was quite a very
big adventure there.
You can be sure, one that is not yet over, that we are participating in and as.
And then you get the earth and then you get life on earth and then you get all of the
different species and the evolutionary epochs and the cataclysms and the moments of vast
opportunity when life leapt forward and became vastly diverse and astonishing.
And then you get our people showing up and then you get the entire history of mankind
within that bubble of life and the universe and time space, origin and then you get me,
our people this time, you and I, our minds, our bodies, our own hands.
So if my hand was to wonder who am I, that would be like me wondering who am I.
I am a hand of all of those, my body even looks like a hand.
It's a lot, our bodies are very hand like, it looks like we might be the hands of something
if you just looked at us walking around.
We don't normally see this but artists do.
Anyone who understands the anatomy of the hand and then compares it without the body
will immediately see astonishing, shall we say, perspectives on how the unique ways that
holes don't have parts.
And so since we aren't really parts, we don't really have a self.
In fact, we don't have things.
My hand is holding something right now but it doesn't have it.
In fact, fascinatingly, my hand doesn't have anything.
And a self is like that.
The problem with a self is it's invisible so it's a kind of a hand that once it grasps
something it thinks, oh I'm that, I can grasp it.
Now I've got that, got that packed away, I know what I am.
I know what to be.
Well, when a hand is grasping a tool, it knows what to do.
Or we know what to do.
We know we're directing our hands, right?
So we know what to do with it, hopefully.
Many tools are very compelling.
They can tell hands what to become.
They can tell hands and people what to become.
A paintbrush is such a tool.
A paintbrush creates new minds, new bodies, new ways of being selves.
So too does a knife.
A sewing needle with which we create clothing or tapestries with which we might bind together
or wound is a very special way of being a hand and becoming ourselves.
So when the hand is holding something and we are driving it, right?
We are there, we are alive, we are human, hopefully intelligent.
We become kind of what we're doing with our hands as even I am to some degree now.
But I don't possess any of those things.
There's no self to possess having done them.
The hand doesn't own anything.
And even if I wear a ring, right, which is kind of a self for the hand, isn't it?
Something that's conserved over every interval of action, yeah?
If I wear a ring on my hand, this doesn't tell my hand what it is.
But interestingly, our marriage rings say that our hands are for one another, our hands
are bonded.
This is not just one hand you see here.
This is the hand of a union.
It's here within for as and from in hope and joy and wonder and protection of this union.
And this, now we are getting close without having to wear any rings.
Our self is the recognition of the unities of origin, nature, descent, not in language
or mathematics or physics, though in an intellectual way there and in logic.
No, no, in being, the living recognition before all fictions of our nature.
This is only itself in relation.
And in relations that are disoriented or oriented around boxes and fictions, frameworks and
language, declarations, religion, formal declarations of identity and value.
The self has to be counterfeited as to make up rings.
The hand of our being must make up rings and conserve and protect and defend and make new
ones and so on.
So if you want to ask what is the self, really you're saying it's the one who keeps making
those rings to get across gaps that are uninhabitable in a sense and they're empty of beings.
They're words and fictions and ideas and structures and so on, algorithms and things.
There's something kind of funny which is when I was a kid, the early Warner Brothers cartoons
were very popular, meaning in the circle all of the elements found them exciting and funny.
There were intelligent objections.
The most intelligent I've ever heard was from Fred Rogers before I believe a Senate subcommittee
and I encourage anyone listening to watch Fred Rogers' speech to I think the Senate.
It's brilliant and human.
And there is an excellent example of someone becoming brilliant and human on the spot in
the moment in a courtroom even.
But we used to watch the Warner Brothers cartoons a lot and some of you will be familiar with
Wiley Coyote and Roadrunner or Bugs Bunny and some of his cohort, Daffy Duck, Porky Pig,
Elmer Fudd, the usual suspects.
And of all of them Roadrunner is kind of the best and most pure in one sense, the sense
I want to point at, that Wiley Coyote is the explicit not catching of Roadrunner.
He doesn't get it.
Wiley Coyote is a joke the Roadrunner is playing on itself.
And so the idea that the Coyote is going to capture and eat its own origin is incredibly
hilariously ridiculous when you watch this try to play out and it's much like the mind
with which we form the question, who am I?
It's the Wiley Coyote mind.
It thinks it's going to somehow capture and maybe manipulate, hold on to its own origin.
So if you think you could do that, you can just roll up your right sleeve, if you've
got a sleeve, and hold up your empty right hand and attempt to grab your right wrist
with your right hand and go for it and see how that works out.
As long as you do that, it could probably be kind of funny because it just, no matter
what you do, it's not going to work and you might be able to develop a prosthesis that
would allow that, but even should you accomplish that, the result will be ridiculous and hilarious
and maybe some kind of abstract art object.
So Wiley Coyote builds all kinds of machines and plans and plots to try to capture the
Roadrunner who's essentially dreaming him.
And as you can imagine, because you've probably tried to capture a dream, maybe so that you
could bring it to life in the world somehow or show someone else what it is, it doesn't
work.
Others don't have the structure of things we can transmit, they don't have this nature.
And the self is much like this, and Bugs Bunny is a similar jest.
It's almost as if Porky Pig and Daffy Duck are in many cases creatures he's dreaming.
And so he kind of knows he's lucidly dreaming them.
And this is true of the Roadrunner as well, the Roadrunner is lucidly dreaming the Coyote
that's chasing him.
This is far more profound than it appears.
If you haven't seen Roadrunner and Coyote cartoons, Wiley Coyote and the Roadrunner,
I encourage you to watch one or two to get the flavor of it so that you'll understand
how it is to think I have a self and want to know what that is.
Truly the self originates in an activity that we don't really have a name for.
It isn't dreaming, but this is probably the closest thing in our language to quote where
we're coming from, unquote.
So it's a flowing process, and how we will articulate that flow will modulate radically
depending on what we think we're supposed to do, as if there were a book of supposed
to have written somewhere by a couple of Italian guys or something, and how we think
of what others think we may be thinking or doing and such and on in this.
A kind of internal fictional amphitheater, because actual others are missing.
So we, like children who have no friends, we invent a kind of a fictional amphitheater.
