judgments and analysis of myriads of fictional collectives and others, isolated by threats,
isolated by fear, isolated because there's nowhere to be, at all, and just be, together.
I so late, I am so late, I'm so late that there's no party of any kind I'm not already
late for.
There's no coming together of any kind that whatever I might have been, didn't already
this, and there's this feeling of just lag, there's this feeling of just incredible lag.
It's going to be confusing when we first encounter this gap between the possibility of being
born right now and of being home, becoming home together now in all the ways that we
can discover and explore and play with and thinking or serving the overlays and building
constructs and masks and getting cash and harming each other, harming the environment,
harming ourselves.
I mean, essentially we're taught to abandon ourselves into fictions.
So it's not surprising that we don't have any idea, for example, what the sky is.
I mean, you know, I could imagine if you kind of got confused about what was right next
to you, but how could we forget what the sky means and that we belong in and as and for
it?
How did we get anywhere where that could not be obvious to every waking human person?
The pivots of our personality, the pivots of this supposed individuality we're supposed
to enjoy the privileges of apparently somewhere have all been falsified because they can't
be stipulated.
Once stipulated, they're dead and prison-like, like stipulated marriages.
We are the marriage of the mothers and fathers, each one of us, each moment, like the sun.
We live surrounded and buried sometimes by constructs and fictions, quote, responsibilities
unquote, that interfere with or make it very confusing to be brave enough to be human and
alive and learn what it means to be intelligent together.
And so for most of our waking lives, we're doing every other thing and it's very confusing
and it's in conflict with our hearts and our souls and it's in conflict with the sun.
It's in conflict, absolute conflict with nature, it abolishes nature and puts dead
boxes and machines there instead.
There are children who think it would be preferable to have a prosthetic hand and thus we may
surmise that by the time it gets to that degree, the living hand that was our minds has become
something else and is now both dominating, aggressive, well-armed, domineering and intending
to never let go at any cost, including the cost of our lives, the history of life on
earth, our people, everything that our people have ever been or done or hoped for, anything,
any cost.
Now the hand simply wants to remain dominant, a fake hand in the place of our minds and
especially our collectives, almost every single kind of them, they have to be half machine
or half fiction to even interact or exist in the world.
There are exceptions or there are exceptions that, shall we say, modulate that half fiction
very beautifully and very intelligently so that they can even produce from it its opposite
result.
If we're not holding hands, the hands of our minds become falsified.
If we're not holding hands in daily life, within for each other, every person we see
right now, every animal, every living place right now, we have to hold hands at least
in our minds and hearts in this way and learn to again because without that we won't have
minds and hearts.
We're going to have a false son, a fake version of what fatherhood is supposed to be, a fake
impossible version of what motherhood is quote supposed to be, like some fiction wrote
the book of supposed to and then told mothers how to be mothers.
Now in a culture as confused as ours, our mothers and fathers are so broken, you have
to have laws, so that's the other, right, that's the ironic edge.
It can be explicitly demonstrated that we are no longer intelligent enough to raise ourselves,
to be for each other or anything.
Therefore the responsibility is going to fall to us not to fulfill responsibilities but
to recover ourselves together, to discover what it means to be human and fathers and
mothers and intelligent and working within for each other.
However we may choose to do that going forward, but we cannot sleep in service to machines
that are grinding our lives and minds and dreams and world apart for the simple sake
of domination and continuance of these processes.
They're inhuman, they're unintelligent, they are themselves machine-like.
They are the counter-fitting of the light of our humanity.
One could say that many great effects were known by man by bringing light of the sun
down to earth but I would disagree.
The light of the sun is already bathing earth and what we've done with things like nuclear
power and the ability to manipulate those forces has been catastrophic, 2,100 nuclear
explosions on the face of this world, streaming deadly to life toxins and poisons into the
environment forever, radioactive waste, the lethalist kind of thing that we could possibly
imagine that is nowhere produced in nature.
We have catastrophic accidents quote unquote handling this because not only would a real
intelligent human collective be challenged profoundly to intelligently handle something
like that, the collectives we have are really too dangerous to be trusted with silverware
so giving them something like atomic power is abjectly insane, it would be I don't know
how to make an analogy that ridiculous, it's just putting a time bomb in with a bunch of
children who were going to play with it like a toy and maybe blow it up faster.
So again, like intelligence itself, like the light within our minds, we have to be cautious
about the purposes for which we organize and direct it, like our hearts, like our guts,
like our lives, why are we doing things?
Souls purposes, the sun's purposes and the purposes of time space, not that they are
formal like ours, they are not stipulated, they simply are, emerges living beings on
a delicate world here, a little bubble, a brief blip in Saul's lifetime and a tiny flash
in the history of the universe, but down here on earth, we're participating in eternity
and all of the things that we say and do are not of the orders we imagine, they affect
many domains we don't think about, relational domains, I'm excited by the opportunity to
remember what it means to learn and see on a living world where every creature here and
every organism, every living place is the intelligence of time space is the living face of it.
I'm excited about the possibility of recognizing this together again and what it might mean
to be human if we understood a little bit more about where and who we are and how we
may become ourselves rather than masks, prosthetics, functions, statistics, information, browsers,
consumers, spectators, passively receptive slaves who every day go to some kind of work
that attacks mostly everything and participate in conveniences that destroy ourselves and
our intelligence and celebrate them madly.
One day, 50,000 people will gather in a stadium and in the next four hours, they'll change
human history instead of winning a sports game and on that day, I will be smiling and
so too will the sun and we might have some idea what it's like to be a father and realize
that there's no such thing as an individual father.
We're all fathers together or we can't really be them.
We're all fathers for each other or there aren't any.
We're all mothers in each other or they disappear.
We're all mothering each other or something else is going on.
So I'm excited about finding out what that looks like and it's something we can all do
every day all the time.
You are the sun, you are the history of life on earth, you are the moon and the sky.
What will we become together and why?
What purposes will we trust?
I hope that we can find a way to become a living compass which is indeed the true likeness
of nature and entirely unlike most of what we're taught and most of what we think.
Our origin is more astonishing than the entire vista of fantasy and science fiction.
Your role exceeds every character you've ever encountered.
Get a taste of that.
Take my hand.
Let's join some others.
Let's become the taste of that again.
