To have the experience of being human, we have to know what it means to be in communion
with our origins and reality.
We are the sun.
We are this world.
We are time-space.
We are those forces and histories and eternities right now here.
But overlaid on top is a kind of fake sun made of thinking and language and stories and ideas
and things in books, books that replace the sun, stories from people who live in boxes,
who look in boxes, who read little boxes, who hold boxes in their hands and sleep on
boxes and store things in boxes and everything is incredibly boxes within boxes within boxes.
So to understand the sun, we need to understand the children and the earth, the earth, moon,
relationship.
In a sense that is real, the moon represents the friendly aspect of time-space, the mother.
Now, it seems weird that the moon might represent this rather than the earth.
It seems weird even to me.
And yet, represent isn't the right word.
The moon is the embodiment of.
It's hard to explain why it isn't the earth to those who've grown up thinking this.
But the earth is a child between the moon and the sun.
No moon, no Goldilocks.
See, that's the problem right there.
And in some way, the moon is like the impossible locality of the spirit of the mother, which
is an aspect of the medium in which the sun is traveling.
And so the sun is informing this aspect of the mother to create the bubble in which life
comes and is sustained.
And the moon is balancing magnetic forces, the snakes.
She is also handling the snakes in the woman's way from the absence position locally.
So in a sense, the moon is kind of the physical expression of the necessary absence of a mother
who is everywhere.
And the difference in the polarity of that absence is that without the moon present,
no life.
With the moon present, life has cycles.
So there's something very profound about the moon.
And to understand the father, it's impossible not to understand the moon.
And that the father sort of is working with two different polarities of snakes, a kind
that is safe and friendly to life in the mother, and a kind that he wrangles into his own being
as his own being, and also repulses, and maybe defeats, or renders no longer present locally.
And we have these images of angels with their feet on a serpent.
This is where this image comes from.
The sun is the angel, Michael, with his foot on the serpent.
What is the serpent?
It's the bad side of, not the bad side, it is the, yeah, this is a more difficult question.
Perhaps we'll suspend this one for the moment, since it leads down many trails, as a serpentser
want to do.
But you can see, right, that this is present in our ideas about divinity.
And I guess there was some point where the people of the books, the book religions, decided
that it was too dangerous to allow the sun to actually be authentically known to human
beings.
Perhaps they thought the fire of knowing the sun was too dangerous, for with knowing
the sun comes a fire inside you.
So they made books and representations, and costumes and hats and things, and symbols
and stuff.
And they tried to tell us, you know, that it's not the sun, don't worry about the sun,
that's just something God put there, like to make it okay and stuff.
I guess I don't know.
It's pretty obvious that that's self-conflictedly impossible.
Right?
No sun, no bibles.
So problem there.
No sun, no minds, no bibles, no religions, no representations of relationships, just
time space.
So you can see there's like true relation, and then there's a bunch of thinking and overlays
and stuff that humans have what we're awake.
And these become a bit of a false sun, and then our cultures refashion them for all kinds
of really unimaginably ignorant and cruel purposes.
And we direct them all these purposes against each other and ourselves, and we compete.
Or we make unities that are stable, unlike little solar systems that have a good sun
and a brilliant kind mother.
Now the sun isn't stable because he's good at being stable necessarily, right?
He's not trying to be stable.
He's stable because he's relationally impossible for him not to be true.
There's no other way to be, the sun can't falsify himself, but our mind in the waking
world acting as a sun or in place of the sun in many different domains.
We can kind of make false stars.
And the cultures themselves comprise false, fake suns that tell us what we're supposed
to be and do and think and feel, most of which is terrible for everything and everyone, and
actually insulting to what it means to be human or alive, intelligent, or like the sun.
So we get a bunch of really weird, conflicted, ironic representations and ideas and concepts.
And the thing I'm trying to get at here, which is ironic since I'm using language, is that
it's not conceptual.
The relationship between your hand and you has nothing to do with concepts and you can't
move your hand with concepts.
In fact, if the relationship were to be broken, you would be very sad and your hand would
be really not good.
So then you might get a prosthetic hand, one that's not connected to your body, your
life or history or anything, or the sun, except in a very strange, artifacted way.
And you wouldn't really be able to feel with it.
And it would not cross your wrist.
And by the way, without the moon, I doubt we could maintain the bubble of our atmosphere,
and so the sunlight would obliterate us, right?
We all think we experience sunlight down here.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, my friends.
To experience sunlight is a different thing depending on where you are.
And down here, what we experience is not sunlight, but an incredibly carefully, astonishingly
filtered, survivable version, again, that becomes beating hearts and minds and lives
and children and reality.
So now sunlight is something really, you wouldn't survive it.
And if you got anywhere near the sun, just outside of Earth's atmosphere, it's pretty
rough, right?
It's a storm of incredible domains of energy and magnetism, plus there are little particles
flying around it, unbelievable velocities too.
So it's pretty crazy out there.
And down here, what we get is a really like a pinhole iris version of sunlight.
And strangely, our minds are similar, especially the waking mind.
It hungers for a broader iris, but it's terrified that the iris might widen just a little bit.
The waking thinking mind is frightened of the light of being.
It's just as frightened of this light as it is of death, which is why I was so scared
when I began my birdwalk here.
There are many machines around me.
They're doing something that isn't like the sun.
Only organisms can do something like what the sun does and the Earth and the moon and
our minds.
And we're afraid of the real light of the origins of our minds.
We think, for example, that way lies madness, yet we dwell in overlays that are 12 times
more insane.
It would be impossible to be as mad as we are, impossible, had we any contact with each
other, our origins, nature, time space itself, and some of the stories and figures that might
help us understand our real position, our real participation in these matters.
For down here on Earth, we have the chance to be the sun and the moon.
In our bellies for six sevenths of the history of life on Earth, there were no brains.
And in our bellies, that six sevenths of the history is a lie, it's our guts.
And while it's a bit of a hyperbole to say this, the primary nerve trunk that connects
the gut and the brain, most of the traffic travels gut to brain.
And if we watch very closely from some perspectives that are really important to pay attention
to, guts tell brains what to be.
If you don't feel feelings in your head, you feel feelings in your gut.
Wouldn't it be interesting if the sun didn't feel feelings, didn't feel the wrestling in
his body and his being, his way of being and going, but felt it in his gut, which would
be like the Earth where actually all the living guts that we know of exist.
And where for six sevenths of the history of life on Earth, life was guts.
And so when I feel emotions like fear in a sense, my gut is wrestling snakes, much like
the sun.
And really interestingly, this produces in me minds.
If I react to the snakes in my gut, my mind kind of collapses and I stop going and I start
balking in various domains and reacting and such.
I stop being myself and I start becoming more like thinking and conceptual prediction and
statistical analysis and this kind of thing.
So in a sense, the sun feels and thinks and knows with the minds of the living beings
of Earth and there finds the results of his travel.
Is it good?
Is it true?
And finds correction there.
And our minds and bodies are a bit like this.
Most of us is our body and at night when we fall asleep, most of the mind transforms and
our metabolism changes its master, has a new master at night, so to speak, and everything
becomes flow and like water again.
A bit like time space itself, in fact, identity is fluid, relations are real, not representational.
We know what things are by the sense of them rather than their names or addresses and we
have an experience of flow being.
And even in these experiences, it's as if we're wrestling snakes of a kind.
So there's a lot of things I'm trying to get out here that are difficult to point directly
at and forgive me if I'm a little clumsy, but in my guts I feel my encounter with the
world and I can have thoughts that generate feelings in my guts if I move my mind in certain
directions, we might say.
I can easily generate snakes and if I move my mind in other ways, I can calm and reorganize
them and then I can come forth.
When I'm surrounded by snakes, I'm busy fighting and if it doesn't so much matter, if I made
them, culture made them, we made them together against each other in nature, there's millions
of these sort of little jolts that travel between us.
So we're all kind of wrangling snakes and there's a way that the sun does this and a
way that the moon does this and they are in nature polar opposites that contain each other.
So the sun is very gravidic and is the result of that gravity, that feminine drawing together.
Constantly in fact, we might even say the sun is eternally collapsing into tangled new
expressions of possibility, exploding into them, literally, as it pulls our world through
space.
When it shines in the morning, the light is bluish and when it sets in the evening, it
is reddish and when it sets we will go to sleep and Saul and Victus will return to his
origins or the moon shall dissolve into hers, perhaps somewhat together.
But in life, we're fighting a lot of fictional snakes and in fact what we're fighting with
isn't even ourselves, it's like a mask or something.
We're fighting each other, everything's confused.
It's not possible to be a father or to understand what it means to be a father in a context
where everything corrupts, co-ops, pornographizes, legalizes, defends, falsely defends, poisons,
threatens, it's impossible, nor can one be a mother.
Our culture is like the bad aspect, the dangerous aspect of time-space, everything, the collectives
which seem to be weirdly projections themselves of something rather than human or alive or
intelligent.
It's like a mass form of snakes and the mothers face it and the fathers face it, it's not
safe to come home.
We don't know if there could be a home, how can there be a home, it's all snakes.
The one thing that seems to be in our world, snake mastering, to be protected from snakes
and be able to get the snakes to do what you want, is cash.
Once it was relationships with nature in the sky, our origin in each other, and now it's
cash, now it's pure representation.
That's becoming, that's undergoing its second reincarnation as information and analysis,
what we might call algorithmic intelligence, that's the next cash, and we're being made
into it.
So is it safe to be born as myself, is there such a thing as home, can there be a home,
can I come home, will death destroy me?
These are the pivots around which we wrangle our snakes.
And the strange direction this compass points in is into nature, each other, true relation,
and our origins, sky.
And when I say nature, I mean direct relationships with living places and things as our way of
being alive, together, with and for those living places and each other, in recognition
of the entire history of life on earth, and the history of our own people, all of them,
all that we have struggled for, and said and thought and done and suffered, instead of
something like what we know we came to be and do and see and become together.
It's not clear to the thinking mind what to do, and as isolated individuals isolated
from our origins, nature, isolated sometimes by certain forms of what looked like intelligence.
Isolated by opinion, isolated by class, isolated by race, isolated by gender, isolated by the
