Today is Father's Day, it's 2015.
Right now, I feel fear, strong fear.
I've been in many situations in the world that were frightening.
And I've had many situations in thought and life that were frightening.
This is a different kind of fear.
This is a fear that feels like a mixture between maybe I'm afraid to be born, I'm afraid
to come home, I'm afraid there's not a home, and I'm afraid of dying all at once.
And I associate this fear with a way of seeing that involves those four things.
Am I willing to be born?
Do I really want to come home?
Is there such a thing as home?
Am I willing to die?
Now for humans, these things mean confusing ideas because we think that birth is a one-time
event and death is a one-time event, otherwise it's just conceptual or metaphor to us.
And we sort of can't tell in many contexts the difference between becoming ourselves
and surviving or functioning correctly or adequately or successfully in some context.
Even now I'm trying to do this, I'm wrestling with those things.
There's machine noise around me, I'm in a box and I'm talking into a machine.
And I feel fear, fear that I might fail, fear that I don't know what success exactly might
look like, fear that I'll be interrupted, fear that I'll fail to communicate the core
of what I'm here for.
And then I have a lot of other emotions and lots of thoughts.
I think this is a lot like how it is for most of us, most of the time.
And what I'm really here to do is to jump off a kind of a cliff.
So the fear that I feel isn't just conceptual, I can see something that feels a lot like
an abyss beneath me.
As one perhaps who was about to jump off such a cliff with a bungee cord or a wingsuit.
The origin of the concept of father obviously has nothing to do with language.
It doesn't have to do with rules or specific pictures.
And it's the spirit.
And it's a noble, divine, humble spirit that is indomitable and victorious, not because
of something that is a given person or man, but rather by so beautifully and intelligently
disappearing as an individual, a father emerges in the world.
It's not an accounting game, the father does not make sacrifices, banks, and numbers have
nothing to do with this.
So what is the spirit, the origin of our sense, the fatherhood?
What does it mean, of course, to be a man?
How did we learn to understand?
Where did we get all of the conflicted nonsense we play out instead?
Language and stuff, ideas and laws and things.
Where did it all come from, where did it all start?
It starts every morning with a sunrise in an absolutely physical way so that if you
take that away, everything on earth disappears, the entire history of life on earth, everything
gone.
In fact, if you took it away, I'm pretty sure the planets would just spin off into space,
one or two might crash into each other, I'm not quite sure.
And I'm not very clear on whether Earth's atmosphere would survive that event at all.
So directly exposed to time, space, and no light from the sun, I'm pretty sure everything
would just be gone.
So every morning and all throughout the night, there's a father, the father.
It's not a religious idea, and it's not merely a metaphor, we're made of it.
All of our technology is the one I'm recording on.
These are all things that, shall we say, mechanically manipulate, aspects of solar output, X-ray
technology, MRIs, everything around us is made not of parts, but is a living expression
of a kind of fire we have no understanding of down here.
In fact, if you bring it down here, it's incredibly, incredibly dangerous.
And it's not exactly flame, it's something like living fire of lightning of origin of
life and minds right now and things.
So around here, whether you're religious or not, the sun is absolute, and it's a benevolent
and gentle star.
A slight change in the sun, if the sun were to get angry, wipe out most of life on Earth.
And similarly, if the sun were to get depressed, everything on Earth would go all to badness.
Really fast too, so that what we can see is that as far as stars go, ours is truly beautiful
and heroic and gentle.
All of the history of life on Earth has emerged in and of and with and as the living star.
And what's it doing?
So it's doing a lot of astonishing things we don't ordinarily think about from the
perspectives of science, and it can be hard I think for many of us to understand how to
have a relationship with a star, especially if it's difficult for us to have a relationship
with ourselves or our family, with nature, with time space itself, and it's kind of ironic
that we should even have to have a relationship because by the time you have to have one,
that means something's missing.
We must have been deprived of one before we have to have one with something that we're
made of.
How can you have, does your hand have to have a relationship with your arm?
So this is the kind of relationship we have with the sun and nature, the history of life
on Earth and each other.
It's the same order of relation as your hand is to your body.
And that thing that we're really fascinated with in our skulls is sort of a little possible,
how should I put it, micro scale play kingdom, right, that is a lot like a sun, especially
the mind, less so the brain but much more so the mind.
So the mind shines in our being, our mind is the shining of our waking being, part of
it.
Our mind is an aspect of how it can shine I should say and then we have sort of different,
I don't want to get too complex here but thinking and verbal thinking aren't exactly
our minds that we can mistake them for that.
So I think what I'm getting at here is that inside us we have a sun and an earth and a
moon.
In fact it's not really inside us, it's more like the connection between your hand and
your body.
We're an extension, living extension of these many beings.
And so the father is doing something in space, time, and spacetime is nothing like we have
experience of down on Earth.
It doesn't mean the same thing, dimensionality itself, right, if you just go into space.
What's happening down on Earth is a really peculiar localized phenomenon and we can see
even from what we know of this solar system that it happens very uniquely for each world
and that it depends a lot upon that world's distance from the sun and ours happens to be
in what we, what scientists call the Goldilocks zone, not too hot, not too cold, just right.
And we all think it's a cute and humorous comparison but the scientists are quick to
overlook the significance of this and so perhaps are we.
It's not impossible there's life on other worlds in our solar system but Earth is the
shining jewel of myriad forms of life.
That doesn't seem to be obviously apparent from any of the other worlds that we've yet
been able to explore much with machines by the way.
My point is space is nothing like what we imagine reality to be down here.
It's an entirely, it is the order above this one.
So it was reasonable for people of all to look up in the sky and see something like
an ocean and something like living, an ocean of living origins from which this, from and
in which our world forms and from and in which our world is informed and takes its likenesses.
Many orders and forms of life, for example, must to people connected to reality represent,
not helicopters, they must represent the faces and embodiments of the sky.
It's in the same way that if a chemist takes a solution from which salt crystals are produced
and the remnant is water, the chemist will know that the water was salty, the solution
was one of salt and water.
Much like that, the earth and life on earth sort of livingly crystallizes in a sense except
it's a rather fluid crystal isn't it, we're soft aren't we?
So life on earth and the nature of its intelligences have to be an expression of what's upstairs.
In essence they have to be its child, which means you and I are literally, we're not made
of dead star stuff, although that may also be true that the matter in our bodies was
organized by stars distant and now perhaps some gone, obviously some gone.
That may be true but that's not what's going on at all.
That magical dust is alive and animate now in the light of a living star, a very kind
gentle star, a very indomitable star, Saul Invictus, victorious and invincible.
And what is it doing?
Well it's in time space, now we don't really know exactly what that means, but if we make
a children's story it might help us understand a few things.
So whatever time space is, it's intense, very, very intense.
It's so intense that even machines can barely survive out there and in fact one of the reasons
local time space is extremely intense is the sun.
Sun is doing myriads of, it's being myriads of being ways at once in lots of dimensions
we don't even have language about.
So I'm not trying to say that it knows itself yet, it seems unlikely that that's impossible.
But I am trying to say that we as the sun can see the sun.
That's pretty interesting to put it mildly.
So there's a world here where living children made of time space, light and matter are in
union with a carefully orchestrated, continuously safe and survivable bubble.
That's extremely strange.
If you look around in time space you're not going to see much of that.
It's very, very dangerous out there, it's hard to have a child.
It's very, very difficult for a son to have a child, most likely.
And it can be difficult if you manage to get one to sustain it very long.
Things smack into it if the sun is unstable, time space itself is unpredictable and the
sun is actually doing something.
What is it doing?
In the kid's story we might imagine that it's both generating the possibility of a home
in what we call it, in the cone behind it, it is going forth into time space, going.
And in the cone behind it, it's wrangling the forces of time space to create a bubble.
And in that bubble, over vast periods of human time, it has organized stable worlds,
each one like a living jewel of matter and one of them actually alive, this one for sure.
And on this one there are minds and children and living beings in places.
Or not.
So the sun is wrestling something.
And if you've ever seen people spinning fire, or swinging poi, or juggling, things like
this, similar things, yeah?
You're seeing an inaction of something about the sun, particularly with things like poi
spinning that have a bipolar aspect.
In fact, one might say in the child's story that the sun is like a spinning stick that
makes a sphere.
And in that sphere it's wrangling snakes.
It's wrestling the electromagnetic forces, somewhat like snakes, that our bubble is immersed
in.
And it's keeping that bubble stable enough for life for us to have this moment together.
And it's shining and it's wrangling those forces into itself, as itself.
In fact, if we imagine the sun as a very astonishing man who is at once the servant of all the
children and the master of many kinds of snakes, can wrangle them into form, yeah?
And this sort of heroic, divine, truly humble somehow, hero, is leading the solar system
through time space, the solar system trails behind him in a cone of spiraling worlds.
And he's using the worlds to wrestle the snakes, the forces in the worlds spinning around him.
And he's made of them, so that the sun is so electromagnetically tangled that it can
take more than a million years, or many, many years, at least 100,000, probably much more.
For some photons released near the core of the sun to get the few light seconds or perhaps
a minute distance to the surface.
So that traveling at the speed of light, a photon could take 100,000 years to get to
the surface of the sun, or longer, a million, maybe eight million, which means that some
of the photons that we're receiving right now are from, we're receiving photons from
the entire life of the sun, right?
We're receiving photons that are so old, they're unimaginably old, and we're receiving others
that are brand new, or were even made on the way.
And again, with that light to be brought down here, everything would be destroyed, that
light is of another order.
It is not mere energy, believe me.
No mere energy produces life in its wake, right?
That's not energy up there, that's not an explosion in the sky.
That's the origin of the possibility of thinking about things, and of heartbeats, right?
Thinking eyes, yeah.
So that's the real origin of what does it mean to be father-maker servant.
The father has tangled those snakes so perfectly into balance in and as his shining body.
He's so stable that if he were to get angry for even a moment, life on earth would disappear.
If he even got kind of an inch toward anger, he's so stable that if he even got kind of
an inch toward depression, everything would die, right?
And the Earth, the Earth-Moon relationship is very similar.
So incredibly, unimaginably, Goldilocks stable that it's really miraculous if you think about
how unpredictable time-space is that anything's still here at all, especially if you add what
the humans have been doing instead of being human.
So all of our ideas of fatherhood and leadership and manhood and all these things don't come
from storybook nonsense and they weren't made up in language.
They come from a living relationship.
And for people who have difficulty relating with each other or animals or tree deeply
or flower, if you don't have a friend who's a tree, how do you know how to make friends
with the sun?
