Hey everybody.
Life's been a bit more challenging lately for all of us to put it mildly.
And you know, things have changed very dramatically in our culture since the last time I made
a video, and they're still changing.
They're not going to stop changing anytime soon, not in any way that I can understand.
However, the domains in which change will occur and the reasons for which that change
will occur are important to us as human beings.
Probably because we are at least here in white middle class America, we're used to having
things being predictable.
Now when I use a phrase like white middle class America, it's a phrase we can all understand
something about what population segment I imagine that to point to.
And I don't presume that my listeners are all part of that.
That segment.
In fact, I hope they're not.
I use that segment because it's the one that many people would use to point to me, which
in some ways would work and in some ways would be catastrophically wrong.
So one of the things we use language to do is to, how should I put this, to walk down
a ladder of identity from the everything to something.
And then we point at that something, and that something is generally, you know, a person
place thing, process, quality, so on.
So breathing is a process.
A person is a being, but we understand in English beings as things, objects, which is
part of the problem that we have with our relationships with language and knowledge.
And what I mean by that is the habitual relationships we have with language and knowledge often begin
by misframing.
That which language points toward.
And some of those misframings are catastrophically, they're just terribly malformed.
And the language doesn't tell us what something is.
We often treat it as though it does.
And in our consciousness, over time, as we emerge from childhood, from the sort of dreaming
of childhood in the direction of maturity, language becomes more prevalent in its capacity
to predetermine identities, relationships, qualities, opportunities, threats, and so
on.
And most of that is unfortunate, even though it's very useful in some ways.
The reason most of it is unfortunate is, as I said previously, our relationships and
habits with language are inclined to deform what we experience of reality.
And this is part of why, as we mature, moving from childhood into adulthood, this is part
of why, for many of us, particularly those of us who are not artists or creative in some
way, our imaginations begin to die.
And so instead of imagining things, we pay others to imagine things for us.
Instead of singing, we're making music, we pay others to sing and make music for us.
Instead of dreaming and entering into adventurous relationships where we have playful, creative,
sometimes heroic roles, we get jobs.
And people play what would otherwise be our adventurous lives back to us on screens in
search of great sums of money, advertising, and audiences, and so on.
And I think that's tragic, and it's something that I want to transform, that's something
I want to change.
The topic of my talk today is one that I've orbited in a number of recent videos, but
is still deeply on my mind every day.
It's the topic of the relationship between ambiguity or, more actively, reambiguation
and knowledge, opinion, belief.
These are the products of disambiguation.
The other night I was talking with a family member who declared that white people had
become a minority in the United States.
And I thought, how could that be possible?
So during the conversation I looked up census numbers, and according to the last census,
white or Caucasian people comprise 76.3, if I remember the number correctly, percent
of the population of America.
And the adult who I was speaking with refused to believe that, and was completely committed
to the pre-existing belief that somehow our nation had been invaded by immigrants and
people from other countries to the degree that we now represented a minority.
Remember to imagine how a person could come to that perspective, accept that.
The political climate and the news and propaganda climate have a vested interest, meaning they
make money, when they produce fear or outrage in certain populations or if they can misdirect
responsibility for problems in our society that, though they have various origins, are
largely the result of our standing failure to have assembled anything resembling a mutually
forged, nobly impurposed, intelligent society to which we all can belong with a sense of
pride and humanity and peaceful cooperation.
Since we've failed to forge something like that, and instead we're sort of conscripts
or subscribers or slaves to something else, something that masquerades as a society we
assembled when we didn't assemble it, we are subject to it.
Now as I'm speaking, I'm using language to disambiguate some extremely ambiguous situations.
For example, the nature and origins of what we call our society, but it isn't our society,
it never was.
We didn't forge it, and that's why it isn't.
And that's why it's incapable of protecting us or establishing intelligent relationships
that are mutually beneficial between our citizens, all of our citizens, all people.
And you know, this is sort of the advertisement of America, right, that all of the people
who live here, being, you know, all of us being immigrants since there isn't any other
way to be an American, and all of those Americans being at least in some way complicit in the
ongoing colonization of these lands that were previously and traditionally the home of indigenous
people who themselves at some point, probably in relatively ancient history, thousands,
tens of thousands, or fifty thousand years ago, came to this continent.
We may presume that at that time there probably weren't other people here that they displaced.
So this thing we call a nation has a very strange history, and it's not like the cartoons
that we paint of it.
And that's part of why it doesn't function to serve or protect or educate or heal or
encourage and reassure and ennoble and nurture our citizens, all of our citizens, which is
in fact the essential mandate of an intelligently forged society.
And ours doesn't do that.
It does all kinds of other shit, really dangerous shit, a lot of really bizarre, violent militaristic
shit, a lot of completely unnecessary and sort of, what's the right word here, inflationary
consumer, corporate shit, banking and luxury goods and bizarre competitions between companies
to capture the dollar or the attention of an audience.
And thus make a profit, that's a funny word, that.
So unfortunately we're in a situation where we're being disillusioned, I would say, we're
being disillusioned.
In other words, we're being slowly deprived of the illusion or the whole library of illusions
that we held about the nature of our nation and our society, its purposes, functions,
its priorities, its infrastructure, its origins, its leaders, the nature of power, the nature
of subjugation.
We're being disillusioned, meaning our illusions are being torn away and the fictions we have
so long been satisfied with have been thoroughly penetrated both by the epidemic, which is
still quite mysterious and bizarre regardless of what anyone likes to think about it.
We don't know much about, in fact, what do we know much about, right?
We have really tiny superficial, we're used to producing tags that we hook on to things
to pretend that we know what they are so that we can stop being afraid.
So I've been told that's a tree, it's a beautiful being.
But the tag has nothing to do with what that is, and the same is true of all of the tags
we use, of righteousness, of honor, of nobility, of intelligence, of heroism.
We have tags, we have tokens, and unfortunately for us, our kinds of intelligence are prone,
they are inclined, they are vulnerable to replacing relationships with tokens.
And those tokens are the result of disambiguation activity.
In order for me to decide what this thing is, here, right, I have to go through a series
of habitual disambiguations from the everything to something, to a machine, to a car.
But I can do that process in all kinds of different ways.
And the waking mind is inclined to prefer concrete derivatives, and that's what I mean by tokens.
So if I see a human being, for example, there's lots of different ways I can do the disambiguation,
right?
And this is part of what our country and our society is confused about and arguing about
right now.
I can see a human being, and I can see in that human being the divine origins of being
itself, if I believe there are such origins, if I believe that origins and beings are divine.
They don't have to be divine to remain sufficiently ambiguous, to relate intelligently with them.
They can simply be mysterious or unknown, right?
In other words, from beyond the known, from outside the library of tokens that we use.
Someone can look at me, and they can see something mysterious.
They can see an instance of the nature of time space.
They can see a soul.
They can see the expression of a vast history of ancestral progenitors.
They can see me as a collective of trillions of complex microorganisms that develop symbiotic
relationships over the history of life on Earth.
They can see me as an exponent of the history of life on Earth.
They can see me as a playmate.
They can see me as a possible teammate or a co-adventurer.
They can see me as a writer, an author, a philosopher, a teacher, a companion, a lover,
a friend.
They can see me as a man.
They can see me as a middle-aged man, or they can see me as a white middle-aged man.
The way we go through that process of disambiguation is the result of our purposes in doing so.
Now I want you to see how powerful it is when we are freed to see the continuum of identity
that is accessible to us.
So I gave you a brief example.
But if there is someone, anyone, who decides that, for example, the color of my skin is
the important, determinative quality in how they're going to relate with me, then part
of what is happening there is that rather than seeing me as any of those amazing things
I described, they're going to see me as a population segment that is either aligned
with their goals, purposes, and beliefs, or opposes it, or is neutral.
And this is part of the problem that we're having, is that instead of seeing human beings,
we're seeing colors for purposes.
Some people might argue that I should be de-platformed because due to my ethnicity, a characteristic
described to me, I belong to both the privileged and the empowered population segment here
in the United States.
And that's a reasonably comprehensible disambiguation.
I neither agree nor disagree.
I have no position on that at the moment.
It's not my purpose to disambiguate that way.
So for me, while I understand that someone else might have that purpose, and might say,
I have no right to speak at all on such matters, that's their process of disambiguation.
I don't have to subscribe, nor do I really have to have an opinion at all.
What I have is a perspective and some purposes, and one of my purposes is to reveal the processes
that underlie how people come to think of phenomena with which they're relating, like this stuff.
So this stuff is called nature, generally.
It's one of the ways we disambiguate it.
But what that word means to me is something so different from what it means to ordinary people
that I might as well be walking through the living body of a God, or the anciently conserved
relationships that are the embodiment of the intelligences in space-time.
I am in a world very few others who I know can't even detect.
And it's because my purpose and the way that I disambiguate is very differently forged
from many peoples.
But what I want to get at here is that the waking mind likes solid, tokenized deliverables.
It wants to know, is that a black man?
Is that a white woman?
Is that an Asian man?
An Asian woman?
Is that, you know, is that person, is their segment in power?
Is their segment in being subjugated?
They have desires, right, to make determinations for purposes.
And most of those purposes are not very good.
They're not humane.
They're not intelligent.
They are the purposes of creating and reinforcing factions.
And some of those factions have to be understood deeply and seen through the lens of their
origins and purposes to be understood.
Now I'm not going, it is not my intention today at all, to try to disambiguate the pile
of spaghetti nightmare that is the current situation in our country regarding racism.
I'm going to steer mostly clear of that bombshell.
And instead what I'm going to talk about is the mechanics that we use to arrive at tokens.
And the way that tokens stand really between us and relationships, or they stand in the
place where relationships would otherwise exist.
And if we look at the problems surrounding racism in our country, we can see very simply
that something like this has happened.
Factions have been produced.
Those tokens created factions.
The factions are, they are in a dichotomy, or they are arrayed against one another, for
and against one another.
And the police themselves are a faction unto themselves.
They are a specially, strangely privileged group.
More privileged even than, well, not as privileged perhaps as the elite, the extremely wealthy,
but more privileged than people who we might otherwise understand to be privileged.
