I'm not going to fly in that dimension.
I'm not going to fly in this one.
When I talked about initially how someone who saw me might disambiguate me, they might
see like, oh, there is the face of time space itself embodied in a being capable of the
conscious relationship with nature and their own intelligence of expressing uncommon human
intelligence and maybe even transhuman intelligence.
There is something astonishing.
There is a miraculous being.
Someone who sees a miraculous being before them, beautiful and good and filled with the
opportunity for noble relations, beneficial and mutual interactions.
Someone who sees this is much more likely to experience that than somebody who sees
a white middle class male.
Those are both available disambiguations of the phenomenon of encountering me, Darren.
When we're disambiguating, we are under the mistaken impression that we're determining
the identity of extrinsic phenomenon and beings and things and objects and processes
and such.
But actually what we're doing at the same time, it's not that we're not doing that,
but at the same time, we're actually determining our identity.
In many ways, if we could see the freedoms we throw away in that process, our lives and
minds would be absolutely transformed.
We would be incapable of many of the injustices that are common to our personal and collective
experience.
We would be incapable of forming organizations whose purpose of foundation is the commission
of atrocity for profit or power.
We would become uninterested in those things, maybe permanently.
What I want to make very clear is that as adult humans disambiguate phenomenon, what
they're actually doing is they're disambiguating their own identity, and they're not aware
of that.
If we could become aware of that together, we would gain types of liberty.
We have never been bold enough to imagine yet, and that is my hope.
That is my dream.
The other side of the coin of disambiguation is ambiguity.
When we have a belief or an opinion, when we have an argument, we make a statement,
we have a position, then we become inclined to defend a very specific disambiguation of
some phenomenon.
We become inclined to be willing to argue, to have conflict, maybe to go to war, possibly
to kill, to preserve and reinforce a specific disambiguation we have previously made.
Just as when the man I was speaking with the other night, I think it was last night, the
night before, said that white people had become a minority in the United States.
What could that possibly mean?
This person, who I'm very close to, was absolutely committed to this particular disambiguation
and did not care a bit about the statistics or the numbers or anything.
Completely refused to even entertain any other idea.
That person had completely disambiguated this topic.
They had an opinion and a position that they were interested in defending.
What that meant, ironically, wasn't really anything about the question.
A position that confused is actually about the unimaginably and cruelly narrow result
emotionally, psychologically, intellectually of them having either done that disambiguation
themselves or been told that, which is almost certainly what happened, by some particular
news organization or something, having taken that on, that then becoming part of their
internal, felt and known perspective of their own identity, and of the situation outside
of them, the public situation, a disambiguation which has purposes like to promote the idea
that they have the right to feel threatened.
That's one of the purposes in that kind of disambiguation.
My point, though, is that the result deprives that individual of libraries of kinds of freedom.
When they come to that conclusion, their humanity has become so narrow that it's no longer reasonably
inhabitable, and yet we do this all the time.
This is what we were trained to do as children.
This is part of why, as we grew older, for most of us who are not artists and creative
and even for some of those people, vast forests in our imagination died.
They just disappeared, they went away, and for many of us, they will never come back.
Because those habits are deeply entrenched, they are socially and publicly reinforced,
their opposites are rare, their opposites are rarely nurtured, we will almost never find
contexts in which we are encouraged to understand the possibilities of our human intelligence,
to embrace their noblest potentials, to express those, to be rewarded for that, to have that
process nurtured and encouraged, to be reassured that the beauty of the minds that we are born
with is more valuable than the structured identities we see instanced in modern mainstream
culture, and many of the side cultures as well.
So many of the side cultures that appear superficially radical are just another, they're just like,
they've got a painted face, right?
It's the same consumer bullshit with a face painted on it, of some kind of noble, metaphysical
or spiritual perspective.
But once that charade is penetrated, we find the same kind of disease broiling under the
surface.
And again, not universally, there are people in contexts whose goals and capacities for
intelligent humanity are profound.
Occasionally we can encounter them, but if we can't encounter them, and this is the
very important thing I'm trying to say.
If we can't encounter them, we can compose them together, and that's what we must do.
And that's what our failure to do, our failure to have done that, leads to the situations
we find ourselves in today.
So this is the crucial thing we can do, and we can do it with two people, right?
We can do it with five people.
We can do it for 10 minutes.
We can do a tiny little piece.
We don't have to transform the world overnight.
We can get together and explore and learn in ways that are astonishing and beautiful
and noble.
And we can tell that they're good, intrinsically, because we can feel in our hearts and in our
spirits and in our minds when new degrees of liberty that had previously been lost are
being returned, the same way we can sense that this person who thinks that white people
are a minority in America, in the same way that person's humanity has been narrowed to
a defender of some kind of nonsense, some sort of racist nonsense.
Now you can see also, though, that it's sort of important that I encountered someone like
that, right?
Because they helped me to understand what the problem is, or what the underlying foundations
of the problems we face, where they come from.
And one of the places they come from is mispurposed disambiguation, right?
Determining what things are in a way that is clumsy, unintelligent, habitual, serves
organizations and people who have acquired power over us, or who we have somehow inadvertently
granted power over us.
So let me just remind you that as we disambiguate together, and this is really funny, I'm disambiguating
the process of disambiguation, which is kind of a meta disambiguation, but I'm hoping
to return some of the liberties that are natural to our human minds, our hearts, and our intelligences.
Now one of the kind of strange results of our fascination with disambiguation is that
our relationship with ambiguity is damaged.
Although our waking mind is extremely focused on disambiguating while we're awake, it's
doing it all the time, and it's not disambiguating everything all the way down to concrete tokens,
it's just doing enough disambiguation that it can determine whether something's a threat,
mutual or an opportunity, and then sort of guide us through that landscape.
Because if we're comfortable, but there are no threats we have to attend, then we can
go back to doing whatever sort of leisurely or whatever activity we would prefer to be
doing, and most of those activities are not particularly fulfilling anyway.
Though some of them are.
So we use disambiguation to produce tokens.
Language is evidence of historically completed disambiguations.
That's what language partly is.
It produces tokens, little tags that we can attach to phenomenon, like these plants.
As long as I know those are plants, so they're not going to jump up and attack me, and neither
are they going to throw money at me.
Unless I have some specific interest in them, which in fact I do, I don't need to pay any
further attention to them.
I can get on with the business at hand.
But ambiguity is incredibly important for intelligence and for memory, and in fact our
dreams reintroduce ambiguity into relationships and identities, so that our memory can survive
the deprivations that disambiguation imposes on it.
And this is a complex topic that I won't have time to explore in depth, but ambiguity
is the foothold that invites imagination to life.
At night when it's dark and you can't see exactly what everything is, the wood in the
trees begins to take on the likeness of faces.
We might experience pareidolia, which is the visual detection of forms in the patterns
of grass, or the leaves, or clouds, or the wood grain on the wall, or the structure of
stones, and ambiguity links us to a situation in which our imagination
can come to life and participate directly in transforming our own role, and that word
transforming is a bit, is kind of appropriately punny, because ambiguity and trance are related.
In dreaming, though upon awakening, we disambiguate identities and say, I dreamt I saw my father
at his house.
What actually was going on was that I saw someone who represented my father, there was
ambiguity there, at a house that represented his house, there was ambiguity there.
So in dreaming, they can collapse very closely to specifics, though it's dangerous to ask
the waking mind questions about dreaming, because it's like asking sand about water.
But in dreaming, ambiguity is preserved, and that means our imaginal faculties and emotions
that we are not ordinarily capable of having come back to life.
And what do I mean by emotions we're not capable of having?
Don't we know what all of our emotions are?
No, we certainly don't.
Not in a world where everything is perfectly ambiguated.
Look at the emotions of children and compare them to the emotions of adults.
Which one has more range, right?
It's not the adults in general.
You can say, well, adults have developed sophisticated emotional, yeah, go ahead, say that.
I won't entirely disagree with you, but that's an insufficient observation in my view.
The range of emotions available to children is vastly broader than the range of emotions,
and more intense and deeper.
Now, I'm not saying that we don't acquire new opportunities for sophisticated emotional
experience and expression as adults.
We do.
But what we lose in that process is profoundly significant, and part of the reason for that
is that the child's experience of the world is vastly more ambiguous than the adults.
There's ambiguity everywhere for the child's imagination to interface with, even though
most people who know me know I don't prefer mechanical and computational metaphors.
The ambiguity in the child's experience and the ambiguity in the experience of an adult
who has been returned to a childlike state in play or through enchantment, or slightly,
I think somewhat unfortunately, through the introduction of intoxicants, which is part
of why adults are doing intoxicants in the first place, is that their common adult experience
feels so deprived of role and meaningful identity and adventure and meaningful purpose
that they become vulnerable to the introduction of substances that mimic but don't deliver
wonder, joy, interest, ecstasy, momentum, motivation, and that's a tragic compromise of our personhood
in general.
Addiction is a terrifying experience, and, you know, children can experience it too, right?
They can be addicted to ice cream or video games or their smartphones.
And now, in modern times, there are many more dangers for children than there were when
I was younger, because the modern context is so dissociated and disembodied primarily
by emulating the machines with which we so constantly interact, and I'm interacting
with them right now.
I spend more time with this smartphone than I spend with human beings, and even when I'm
spending time with human beings, this smartphone is between me and them most of the time.
In other words, this device occupies the between of my relationships, and that is sickening,
terrifying, and can only have unimaginably bad outcomes, particularly because the corporations
behind our relationship with machines, those corporations have invaded the between of our
relationships, a place that should be private to us, and are using that invasion to form
profiles with which we can be directly manipulated, emotionally, psychologically, relationally,
financially, all kinds of ways.
And that statement that I just made is me disambiguating this phenomenon, right?
It's not the only thing that can go on, but you saw what happened.
I had a purpose, right?
I made a bunch of disambiguations, sewed them together into a relatively coherent whole,
and presented them as my perspective.
It's true that those aren't the only things that are the results of our relationships
with machines.
For many years, I supported myself and my family, and still to some degree this day I do that
because people need help relating with machines.
It's a rather tragic misuse of my abilities, but as they say, it pays the bills.
Another disambiguation.
I'd like to leave you today with the observation that the nature of nature is not disambiguated
in the ways that our languages and habits of language and token use demand.
Nature has both identity and ambiguity, and it preserves both of them.
In fact, the representational intelligence with which we are infected as children is
profoundly powerful.
Unfortunately, for most of us, we will experience primarily the impoverishments of that power
