Because they, well, in one sense it's always been this way.
It's a sort of old boys network, the cops.
And by old boys I don't mean there aren't women cops.
I just mean it resembles the networks developed by old, you know, old white males primarily.
And they're empowered for all kinds of different reasons.
They have a unique relationship with the law.
They have a unique relationship with violence.
They are capable of legally enacting lethal force, that is to kill.
They're capable of killing.
They're armed.
They're funded.
And they're expected to carry out the mandates of the instruments of power that they are
representative of.
And those mandates are quite complex.
They have a superficial social face, in other words an outward facing costume, a mask.
And then they have an inward facing identity, an array of expectations and roles and so
on.
I mean when I say those two things are very different.
Police talk to each other in ways they do not talk to the public.
Let's put it that way.
There's a private language and there's a public language.
And we're all somewhat like that.
We all have sort of a private face, the face of ourselves facing inward into ourselves
and a public face, the face of ourselves facing outward toward the public.
Many of us are very concerned about both of those faces, but particularly the one that
faces the public.
Because if that one should become tarnished or in some way injured or impoverished, we
will suffer.
And one of the problems that we have in the bizarre situation in which our society finds
itself at the moment, the bizarre yet absolutely familiar situation, is that...
The public face of certain population segments begins in a way that is unjustly impoverished.
And those people, no matter what the color of their skin, no matter what their gender,
no matter what their origins, no matter how they actually live in the world, can be instantaneously
judged, harmed, killed, tortured, impoverished, denied healthcare, denied rights, denied
education, treated as others, even though they are citizens, treated as enemies, even though
they are companions.
And no matter what population segment we belong to, we've probably experienced something
like this.
I have.
One day in my life, cops came to my house to female cops, white female cops, and literally
told me, without me having been accused of any crime or wrongdoing, that they were going
to take me out into a field and make me disappear, and that there was nothing that I or my family
or my lawyer or anybody could do about that.
That was their initial way of getting to know me.
Now I, being a Caucasian guy, can easily understand that I must have got off easy, because I've
seen and heard of lots of other instances where cops decided to disambiguate identity
in a way that led to the horrifying injury or murder or killing or rape or other terrible
outcome for some person who they encountered.
And let's be clear about something relatively simple.
An encounter with police is, in our time, an encounter with the possibility of death.
It doesn't mean you're going to die, but it does mean that your population segment will
be disambiguated in a way that the police find convenient and habitual, and that will
influence the outcome, whether you live or die or are permanently injured or psychologically
scarred for life and so on and so forth.
So you can see that one of the things the police are doing is they're disambiguating,
right?
That's their job.
Their job is to discover what is happening and who is doing it and what the cause is.
That's the process of disambiguation, and the primary result is the purpose of this disambiguation
is to determine if, well, again, there's a public purpose and a private purpose, right?
So this is much more complex than it might at first seem.
The stated public superficial purpose is, apparently, to preserve what we refer to as
law and order, which means the lawful behavior, orderly behavior, towards society, goods,
property, and each other.
The hidden purposes are so complex it would take hours to try to elucidate them.
I'm sure you're capable of imagining many of them.
And some of them just include things like sadistically torturing common people because
they can get away with it.
Now, I'm not claiming that all the cops do that, but the segment that the police represent
is empowered to do terrible things to common people and is largely protected from the results
of having done terrible things to common people.
And in case that isn't clear, the organization in my city, a very liberal city, San Francisco,
it is whose mandate it is to process and track complaints against the police, the Bureau
of Citizen Complaints or something like this.
In the year when I submitted a complaint after having been essentially kidnapped from my
house by two police officers who were essentially intent on torturing me simply because they
could get away with it, one of those police officers is still an officer.
Her name is Elaine Economist and she was the primary perpetrator.
In the year that I submitted my complaint, the Office of Citizen Complaints lost I think
87% of the complaints that were submitted to it.
Its only job is to track and process complaints against police.
It lost 87% of them.
And it wasn't just that year, it was many years.
So my point is that there are segments of society that enjoy the privilege of being relatively
free from having to answer for wrongdoing.
Now answering for wrongdoing is a very complex topic, but if one belongs to an association
of adult human beings whose mandate is to protect and serve the people of our nation
in a way that is just and humane and fair and intelligent, that mandate is not being
carried out.
And other bizarre motivations are certainly being carried out at a very high percentage
of the results of encounters with citizens.
Part of the problem is that police have power.
They have power over common people.
In that, they have the power to radically or permanently change the course of a human
life, a person they encounter by accusing them of something or pretending they were
doing something.
Now, when I had my encounter with the police, one of the things I didn't realize at the
time because I was naive is that by declaring they were going to take me out into the field
to make me disappear, essentially that they're going to kill me, they were trying to up the
ante.
They wanted, I believe, I don't know exactly what was going on, and by the way, to know
what was going on, we have to disambiguate.
And we do that for purposes.
And if the purposes change, the result changes.
It's the same with beliefs, opinions, ideas, knowledge, but there's something very surprising
here that I'll get to in a moment about this.
In any case, their purpose was to cause me to react in such a way that would mandate or
justify violence against my person, right?
So apparently, at least officer economists thought, if I can scare the crap out of this
guy or threaten him, then he will react in such a way that will allow me to continue
to justify my actual purpose, which is to cause him harm, right?
It's a startling and unexpected result of a relatively innocuous encounter.
And it's not like there's no backstory to the encounter, but the backstory isn't really
important here.
What's important is that police have the ability, anyone who's armed has a unique array of abilities
to disambiguate in a way that an unarmed person is ill-equipped to contend with.
But police, when they arrive on the scene of a situation, or if they encounter a situation,
they have a great deal of power.
And if that power is misused, the result is atrocity invariably.
And they serve a system that, from my perspective, the way that I disambiguate it, is largely
oriented to produce and continue and catalyze atrocity, a system of courts and prisons.
In our country, those systems are businesses, right?
They're essentially for-profit businesses.
If you think cops have power, you should see the powers that accrue to people who are,
for example, lawyers or judges, because those people have the capacity to function in the
framework in ways that ordinary people cannot, much as cops do.
So there are many situations when the police or the courts at least partly accomplish the
mandate for which we imagine they originated, right?
However, in our culture, the idea of wrongdoing is treated as an accounting game, which is
a very bizarre idea, particularly where it relates to corporations, because corporations
can only be financially punished.
So they can commit all kinds of murder and atrocity and violate, you know, obliterate
the oceans for generations to come, burn down the rainforest, frack the underground aquifers
and fill them with radioactive waste and poison.
And the worst thing that can happen to them is they get a fine.
So that's an incredibly dangerous situation where ordinary humans, where the future of
life on earth is competing against this bizarre sort of monstrous entity that's not even human.
It's an array of functions that are generally designed to produce harm in the environment,
hide that harm, and then return astonishing tokens of wealth to those participating in
that harm.
These moths have been very numerous for about the past week and a half, maybe.
Now when I saw that phenomenon, I had to disambiguate, right?
I had to go from everything to something to this process, to this event.
And what I want to make clear, what I want you to understand is that disambiguation is
at least a binary phenomenon in the sense that, as I decide what a phenomenon is, for
example, this is a California sagebrush.
Love this plant, amazingly beautiful organism, love this thing, I love this.
As I decide what something is, there's a kind of illusory process that happens where I think
I'm determining what something else is or isn't, but what I'm actually at the same time
determining is the shape of my own mind and my own potentials for relation with that being,
that process, that phenomenon, that thing, that quality.
So as I'm traversing the tree from everything to something to determine what that is, I'm
at the same time, isn't it funny that our police cars are black and white?
I wonder if that's part of the problem.
Never occurred to me before, sure it's occurred to other people though.
As I'm traversing the tree of identities and I'm coming down toward a concrete derivative
or knowledge, that guy just threw a bunch of ice out of his ice chest, right, in order
to make that statement, I had to do a bunch of very sophisticated cognitive work that
has become habitual to me now that I am quote unquote an adult, but when I was a child,
it was not yet habitual and that means I was still partly dreaming and ambiguity was a
very common aspect of my everyday experience moment to moment.
Ambiguity was everywhere.
That person could just as easily be my best friend as they could be a stranger.
They weren't a stranger simply because I didn't know them, right?
Children have to be taught that there's such a thing as a stranger and that word by itself
is a lethally complex token.
It implies that the safe and correct choice, you know, path of action with people who are
unknown to us is to treat them with suspicion, with doubt, to treat them as a threat.
And primarily, I mean, one of the most important features of disambiguation is it allows us
to determine on the fly whether we're facing a threat, something we don't have to pay attention
to, something neutral, an opportunity, something we should engage with, or it would be good
to engage with, beneficial to engage with, or something unknown and people are very nervous
about things being unknown.
The waking mind depends on full disambiguation on, well, what it experiences is complete disambiguation,
right?
I know that this is a sprinkler head.
For a child, it's a different situation.
That thing could be anything.
It could be a monster, a dinosaur, a toy, something that could hurt me, something scary.
A child doesn't know what things are yet.
Well, small children, they don't know yet because they're still learning to emulate
the habits of disambiguation familiar in their culture, with the adults they're exposed
to, and with their peer groups.
It is possible to suspend the process of disambiguation, and I would argue that if you're capable
of doing that, you're going to experience wonder, awe, terror, and joy, but learning
to suspend that process as an adult is a very challenging thing.
It's one of the things that meditation traditions are organized to assist in.
We have to do the work ourselves, but many forms of meditation will reveal the process
of disambiguation to you consciously so that you will sense when you are doing it and why,
and this will give you new degrees of liberty in that process.
My talk today is oriented to catalyze something similar.
I want us to be conscious of the power of disambiguation, of determining what things are.
I want us to be conscious of the processes and purposes for which we engage in this behavior
commonly.
I also want to talk about the flip side of that coin, but before I do that, I want to
get back to what I was saying a little while ago.
What we don't realize is that as if we were a bird that could fly in a hundred different
dimensions, as we traverse the tree from everything to something, we're actually throwing away
wings.
We're saying, well, I'm not going to fly in that dimension.
