Hello everybody. Welcome.
I'm out for a very late night walk.
Tonight,
I'm going to talk about
some of the fundamental mysteries
in the context of our humanity.
To begin, I'll list a few of them.
Dreaming.
What is dreaming?
What is it really?
If we knew more about everything,
what would we think dreaming is?
Birth.
Why are we born?
Why are there organisms?
Why are there beings that seem distinct?
What is death?
What happens after death?
Is there an after in death?
So, this evening a friend of mine,
a very close friend,
was deeply disturbed
by having had a dream
in which he was to be executed.
And his dream is personal, so I'll not share it here.
What does it mean to die?
One would think, one might think,
many people do think,
that
rather they don't think much about death,
they would think that death is something
we don't concern ourselves with
until it becomes immediately
proximate to our direct human experience.
And we all have experiences throughout our lives
where someone dies.
Eventually that someone is us.
But, we hope, not today.
Today I'm alive.
Perhaps tomorrow I'll be alive.
We don't know.
We think we don't concern ourselves
much with death, and yet,
to know that we will die
is a very profound thing.
Even if we don't know precisely
what will happen,
when we die.
And there's all kinds of stories about this.
Most of the religions are deeply concerned
with the narrative
of what happens after we die.
Or with presenting a narrative,
and frankly,
in almost every religion,
the fact that we die
will be weaponized
in a wide variety of senses,
and sometimes nearly every sense we could imagine.
We will be threatened
with what will happen
if we fail to live well,
and according to some
apparent catalog of laws.
A number of my close friends
spend nearly all of their time
concerned with this peculiar presentation.
Death is one of the profound mysteries of life.
We may think we have no experience of it,
but it occurs to me, at least,
that dreaming might be practice for death.
I had a long conversation with my friend
who was very troubled by his dream.
Whether or not we think that
death is proximate or nearby in time,
we're all aware of it
in a kind of fundamental way,
in a way that's deeper and richer and broader
and more profound than any of the stories we've heard
or any of the beliefs we may hold.
In fact, our fears about failure and loss
clearly are fundamental presentations
of our concerns with what we may believe
is the cessation of this existence.
My friend who had this dream
seems to fully believe
that death is the absolute endpoint.
All things are gone,
ending, nothingness,
no possible continuation of any aspect of being
across that divide.
And most of the people who believe this
are atheists or agnostics.
He suggested that it was a salve,
an ointment, a medicine
that we who believe in the continuation
of at least some aspect of being across that divide
enjoy.
He thinks of that as a comforting thought.
Yet it is not merely a comforting thought
that most of the people who believe
in the continuation of something of us after death
also believe in something like sin
or error or that for which we might suffer
or be punished in whatever follows the cessation
of the physical, biological processes
we associate with being alive.
And we spoke about the effects on morality
of both sides of the belief,
but both that there's a continuation of something
and that there's not.
He suggested that those who thought there was no continuation
would be even more deeply drawn toward moral
and ethical behavior to which I responded,
well, some of them, certainly not all of them.
And he went on to suggest that nearly everyone
is ethical and moral in their own peculiar way.
And so it is very rare to come across
someone who's inherently bad.
And there's some truth in that perspective.
But what he didn't realize was that most of the people
who believe in the continuation of something after death
also believe in a kind of accounting game
where someone or something were the laws of the universe
or whatever we might ascribe agency in this matter to
involve themselves in something resembling judgment
at death or beyond death.
And so the belief in the continuation of being after death
is not merely a comfort.
It's also terrifying because it is in the light of death
that we who suppose something occurs afterward,
something continues, whatever.
We fear judgment.
We fear this accounting game.
Many religions, whether they suppose there is an avatar
or angel or God itself,
rather we should say the self.
We should have a new word here, the being.
We all fear or are at least concerned about
whether or not we have lived well
and what the consequences of not having done so perfectly,
which none of us do, maybe.
And so we have a conscience.
Then of course there are those who would like to live forever.
The very confused people who think
that the longer we can cling to this particular body and mind,
the better it is.
This is a very confused kind of fantasy
founded primarily in the ego and the left hemisphere's desire
to grasp onto identity forever at any cost, at every cost.
The wise person sees immediately through this
and realizes something like or resembling,
it's good to get another go at being human
in a new body, in a new life, with new parents,
with a body adapted to the world it's born into
rather than being a hundred years off,
a thousand years off, death is good.
There's continuation of the self across that barrier of some kind.
Now of course there isn't continuation of the ordinary self.
My identity will certainly dissolve at death.
And it's not my goal here to present models
or my own perspectives or beliefs.
But rather to explore.
I'm walking down to a 7-Eleven on a quest to acquire Frosted Flakes.
Meanwhile, I'm exploring ideas about death.
So, my goal here is to pose questions and offer some perspectives.
Personally it seems foundationally unlikely to me
that death is the complete end, full stop of every aspect of what I am.
In fact, what I am is distributed over multiple individuals
positions in time-space, relationships.
It's not just local to my body.
So, my physical death, while it certainly is the end of this body,
it seems unlikely that it's the end of me or my soul.
And by my soul I mean a complex thing.
Not a singular thing.
I mean something like a constellation of relationships
in which the nearest stars are instanced in a human lifetime.
As me, and there's some transcendental world
to which I am always fundamentally not connected, but I'm an instance of it.
Connected would mean I was parted from it first and then connected back to it.
I suspect that's not the case.
And something quite astonishing is afoot, though I will admit that I don't know.
We have every night that we sleep a series of profound and distinct experiences,
though they are part of a related continuum.
We have experiences of hypnagogia, the onset of dreaming,
which differs from dreaming and waking world consciousness,
and yet is near to both of them.
We have dreaming itself, of which there are probably a thousand varieties, if not more.
We might even say that each dream is a unique variety of dreaming.
We have deep, dreamless sleep, which we might imagine could resemble death.
And we have hypnopompia, which is the nascent onset of waking.
And if we have experience of hypnagogia or hypnopompia that we are conscious of,
these things are often profoundly non-ordinary, unlike anything we are prepared to understand.
They are wildly, shockingly bizarre and redolent of transcendental implications.
I'll pause now for a moment, because I'm getting near my destination.
Alright, I've acquired the ridiculously desired frosted flakes.
So I was hoping to get a box, I just got a little packet, and now I can return home.
So one might argue that much of the flash and flexing of common human life is a display behavior
that flaunts our immortality.
The gigantic trucks, the guy who rode by on his motorcycle at one in the morning,
