blasting music that could be heard a mile away,
sports, ball games, all of these kinds of things.
I don't think that's the most important thing I can focus on here,
but it's something I want to get into the conversation.
Fashion, flair, pride, arrogance, all of these things have some relationship to death.
And in our teenage years, we enter a series of developmental phases
where we are testing our vulnerability to or...
our invulnerability to death.
And so teenagers are well known to be little death defiers.
They engage in crazy adventures, drug use, wild sex,
suicidal activities or activities that could easily get them killed.
Meanwhile, most of the adults are scratching their heads and wondering,
the fuck is wrong with these kids?
Well, maybe something's right with them.
Maybe that's the natural way to be a teenager.
And I think there's something true about that, having been one myself.
Admittedly, many of my teenage adventures that fall into this category were...
a rise for meaning, a rebellion against meaningless roles
and absurd societies and situations that I could not affect.
And I think this too is common.
I've been close to death a number of times.
I've narrowly avoided it on a number of occasions.
I remember once when I was a runaway teenager,
some friends of mine and I went out to the woods to cut up a couple cords of wood
and then sell them in an effort to get some weed.
And I was riding on that wood in the back of a truck.
My three friends were in the front.
And as we passed through Monterey, I tapped on the door and said,
hey, I'm hungry.
I'm going to try and steal a chocolate pie.
Let me out here.
Four miles later, they flipped that truck
and were involved in a terrible accident near Casadero, California.
Once I had a fever so severe that I was paralyzed
and there was black pus coming out of my throat.
I was paralyzed for three days
and I couldn't tell anyone that something was wrong because I couldn't move.
I ran like 106, 107 fever for three days
and I was pleading for death at that point.
One of the peculiar ideas, and this is typical of our modern humanity,
is we have a single word to refer to something that's 10,000 different things
or at least 10,000 differentiable things.
10,000 things we would like to be aware exist
instead of just thinking they're one thing
so that most people think that when we die the same thing happens.
And one thing that came up in our conversation this evening was that
my conversation with my friend who had the terrifying dream
was that it's entirely possible for both things to be true.
In other words, for some people, death is the end.
That soul path comes to complete cessation.
Possible.
And for others it is not.
In the same way that for some people to be born is immediately to die.
Some babies die immediately after birth.
They don't live. They don't have life.
Birth doesn't lead to life.
For those of us who are listening, it did.
But for some children it doesn't. We should notice that.
And so birth in the same way that birth is nothing like the same thing for every person.
Perhaps death is similar.
In fact, it's not really perhaps. It must be similar.
Some people believe that death leads to reincarnation.
This is considered blasphemy in other religions that don't believe this.
Or some of them.
And when most people think of reincarnation, they think of it in a rather silly way.
They think of it too simplistic a way.
They think, I will be born again as a human on earth in the future.
But what if each birth isn't local to you?
What if your birth involves 50 different people or 10,000 people in a unique topology of identity
so that you are part of 10,000 people?
And when you have affinities with people, this is partial recognition of an aspect of yourself.
We all think, no, I'm a separate person. It's not likely.
There's nothing in nature that's much like that. Your own mind isn't like that.
The thing you're thinking with isn't like that.
It comes from incredibly sophisticated trees of ancestry.
We acquire our minds. We develop them in and with thousands of other people and media and the world and so on.
Perhaps this isn't relevant, but earlier I was thinking some humans become confused and think,
well, those moths are really stupid. They just go toward the light. Why did they do that?
And yet those same humans are glued to their smartphones and computer screens and TV screens all the time.
They don't notice that.
And this is somehow relevant.
In many spiritual traditions, there's something that at least resembles the idea of karma,
which fundamentally isn't like how we are trained to think about it.
We're trained to think about it as kind of an accounting of good and evil done in life
and that the good and evil done will be visited upon us in this or a future lifetime.
Now, the thing I said earlier about each of us being born in 10,000 people but locally to one,
we might think of it as being born in a million organisms or a trillion organisms.
Your own body is more than a trillion organisms. It's 50, 60 trillion cells, only half of which are human.
So it should be obvious from that fact and the fact that we didn't acquire half of ourselves from our gene line
that we are collective beings. We're concretions in time space.
And that concretion doesn't have to be local to this time or this world or this place or anything like that.
There's no reason to suspect that it should be except that this is our standard way of being trained to think about it.
We may be, and I think it's likely that we are, a unique local instance of all beings in all of time,
seemingly separate, actually unified but blind to this fact.
And so when this body dies, what is actually dying? A local point of presence of that layered infinity of clouds of beings,
transcendental beings, embodied beings, inorganic beings, stones and mountains and oceans.
What dies when we die?
This body, yes. This mind, not clear. Some portion of it, likely.
Most of us naturally fear death. I do. But for reasons stranger than our common.
There's a scene in Blade Runner where one of the replicants is talking with the Blade Runner, whose name escapes me at the moment.
And he's talking about what he's seen, what he's uniquely experienced, and he's demanding that this is precious and must not be lost.
This is, I think, what we truly fear. The loss of all that is precious and stored within us as an individual being,
and seems local to that being, and fragile. But I'm not sure it is because I suspect that the nature of time space is so profound that nothing is ever lost, fundamentally.
Nor is it merely recorded. And if we're going to think about death, we should think about memory.
And this is another thing for which we have a single word, but there are a thousand kinds.
Think of the kind of memory that's involved when you're improvising something.
A dramatic presentation, you suddenly engage in humorous behavior.
Maybe you are making music, or writing, or dancing. Or you are just simply wandering in a wild place.
This is not recording. There are so many forms of memory. Thread memory.
20 kinds of dream memory. Insight memory. Realization memory. Knowledge memory. Intellectual memory.
And even as I'm doing this now, I'm improvising, and so I am using the forms of memory that are associated with improvisation.
I'm giving them play. I'm playing in and as them.
So what is this self we are so afraid of losing?
Who is the one who is afraid? And what truly do we fear?
It's not my intention to answer these questions, but rather to preserve them.
To resist the common answers and see beyond them.
To reach for true insight, understanding awareness, and even knowledge.
The greatest mystery of all is death.
And there's a reason why it's close to my heart at the moment.
Many traditions pose our waking experience as a kind of structured dreaming in a context that is persistent.
A context that persists across sleeping, and waking, and dreaming, and so on.
And so there's this illusion of a persistent self.
But what about dreaming? Dreaming is not a persistent self. It's not even a persistent world.
And we experience it, hopefully most of us, many times per week, or many times per night.
Though some of us perhaps don't.
There's some discussion in spiritual circles that dreaming is a sign of ill health,
and that, for example, in Taoist philosophy, and in Tai Chi, dreaming is seen as a sign of incomplete health,
or the need for some kind of healing.
It's clear that not merely humans dream. We know that other animals dream.
And perhaps there's something similar that happens even for plants, and who knows, bacteria.
Insects almost certainly.
My walk is nearly concluded, and my thoughts are not.
But I want you to expand your curiosity and your passion for learning around this topic of death,
and the related topic of birth, and dreaming, and waking,
and how these things relate with each other in a fundamental way that ordinarily escapes our awareness.
I will be doing what I'm recommending, and I'm grateful that we have this time to explore together
and transform our minds. Thank you for joining me.
I look forward to learning together again very soon. Bye-bye for now.
