Human science seemed to have a lot of respect for living beings, and is happy to torture
and obliterate them, and has a bizarre metric of value where the more of some creature there
appears to be on the planet or the faster they reproduce, the more likely we are to
use them as test subjects for experimentation.
I'm not going to go on at length about that problem, but the ideological position that
human life is more valuable than other life in some way is wrong, fundamentally wrong.
And if you had a way of knowing that you were going to authorize as married to truthfulness
or verity, veracity, then that way of knowing has, other than having less responsibility
to be moral and ethical, it has much more responsibility to be moral and ethical.
And so we have this problem in science where it is presumed that the pursuit of knowledge
must be accomplished at nearly any cost, and possibly the cost of everything.
It's a sort of breakneck race for knowledge without us having developed societies intelligent
enough to survive the knowledge we derive from science.
So that's a huge problem, and could snuff our species, even within a few generations.
It's strange that the ways of knowing we most rely upon to enhance our understanding
and intelligence do not respect organisms at all.
They will happily torture billions of them all day every day for the sake of what we
think of as perhaps medical science.
So our science has a problem, and it's a moral and ethical problem, and I've covered
this in other recordings, so it's not my goal here to talk about that issue today.
What Sheldrake thinks is going on is much more likely to be true.
Modern science tends to presume that all media and contexts are dead inside, right?
It's a mechanist, reductionist ideology underneath science, which has no right to be there.
That thing does not belong there.
There is no evidence for that thing in the same way scientists love to dance around climate.
There's no evidence, there's no evidence.
There's no evidence for a mechanical universe that's dead inside.
In fact, all of the evidence is on the other side of it, all of it.
So most likely the context is transcendent or something even more advanced than that,
right?
It's being, life, and soul producing, productive of beings, or at least productive of vehicles
for beings.
So that means that the, not only is the media of time space and particularly localized around
a living, you know, a planet with liquid water like ours, not only is that media transcendental
to organisms and productive of them naturally, it's not dead inside, right?
It's more than nearly alive.
You see, this is again the problem.
We are missing categories that would allow us to understand, that would give us the possibility
of understanding the situation local to the earth.
If you try to raise an embryo in a context that isn't alive, you don't get an embryo,
right?
There's no situation in which a dead context produces an embryo.
There are zero of such situations.
And humans can mess around with the situation, in which case life is touching the thing.
And if life is touching the thing, life can communicate life into the thing if it's the
kind of container that can contain beings.
So Sheldrake's position is that there are fields, there are sort of, and they may have
physical properties that we don't yet understand or haven't figured out how to detect.
Though EM is certainly involved, I mean, light is everywhere, mostly, well, it's everywhere
on the surface of the earth.
And even the vacuum of space is not really empty, it's full of light, it's full of electromagnetic
stuff, and probably other stuff, like dark matter, we have no idea what that is.
It's 85% of what's going on out there, apparently.
So the incredible hubris of our species is strange.
Intelligent people pursuing scientific disciplines should certainly grow some humility.
We've had, science has howled, science has, we've practiced it today, 150 years, 200 years.
If it goes back to the 1600s with physics or something, fine.
Okay, so 400 years, big deal.
It's not even a single eye-blink of geologic, yeah, it's not one gunshot of geologic time
or even organismal time, nothing, it was brand new.
We're in preschool around here.
We've become confused as a species because we can build what look like sophisticated
machines that can maximize our capacity to harness certain features of the seemingly
problematical context of gravity in a world that has to be at a certain temperature for
us to survive.
So Sheldrake, I mentioned him because I'm going to go in a direction he proposed.
He gets lambasted.
He's done studies on telepathy that showed high p-value results in favor, particularly
in situations where there's intimacy, situations among animals, and those of us who are human
have experienced telepathy, most of us, at least once or twice in our lives.
We may have experienced it many times per day and just not be aware of it because our
conscious mind is focused elsewhere.
It's focused on thoughts and ideas and such.
I really liked what Jordan Peterson suggested in his discussion with John Verbeke the other
day that thinking is reminiscent of the, oh no, if I lost the word here, yes, this word,
this one word, it's a little problem in my vocabulary.
It means, it sort of means not, the monks who aren't, who live in the regular world,
they are this.
Well, I'm sure my hippocampus will get a little jolt within the next few minutes and remind
me of the word.
But basically what he was saying is that they were the not necessarily sacred version of
prayer because we get a sense that something's missing or something needs attention and then
who is it that attends it, who gets a sense that something's missing or wrong, who is
it that gets a sense that something more is desired or needed, and who answers and who
receives the answer in all of these questions, very interesting.
I liked his idea that thinking is the non-sacred version of something, they're not dissimilar
to prayer.
I think it's a beautiful thought whether or not it's a fact.
Sometimes when there's a hole in my vocabulary, it's probably there just so that my listeners
can work theirs and fill it in for me.
So Sheldrake has shown something very close to group sensing, which is why in these embryo
experiments, there's something very trippy going on, for sure, not maybe.
Although Kastrup's arguing that it's an epistemological illusion or what, it's an
illusion of how we look at it, epistemic illusion, the same way that gliders in the game of life
by Conway or epistemic illusions, they're not really there.
It's just cells following the algorithm.
It's the inclusion of our interests, purposes, and perspectives that produces the phenomenon
in the game of life that we call gliders.
He's not wrong, but it's trippier I think than that.
And Kastrup likes to go from the complex to the simple rather than the large to the small,
he says, in his simplifications.
And he's a very brilliant mind.
But he's arguing for a simplicity that I suspect is too facile.
I'm not sure he might have it right, but he's saying that the effects that are seen,
for example, in the algorithmic clustering that looks preferential, it looks like the
blue-eyed numbers are getting together in little groups while they sort themselves into
the proper order.
There's an in-between phase where they group up unexpectedly in ways that the algorithm
can't account for.
Part of what I think is going on there and also with the embryos, but the question I
have about the embryos is, are they in a contiguous medium?
Do they do the same thing if you raise, what happens if you raise 1,000 embryos, for example,
and subject them to the charatogen test or break them into hundreds, but keep them in
separate containments, but keep them in the same room and synchronized to the same origin
moment and things like this?
Can they communicate across the barrier?
If they're not in one contiguous medium, can they still communicate?
Because they found them communicating with molecular signals and stuff, ATP and calcium,
I think he mentioned.
One of the things he claimed was that this would help us a lot to do higher quality medical
testing of pharmaceuticals because if the, to whatever degree, test subjects were clustered,
they would be helping each other solve problems that wouldn't be able to be solved that way
in any individual and so the individual could easily die of an effect that is not seen or
is minimal in the cohort.
We've had this happen before.
What happened was, and this is Brett Weinstein's, this is one of his profound chips on his
shoulder, Eric's brother, evolutionary biologist.
Back in the day, everyone knew that the telomeres of wild type mice were long.
This means lots of things.
The simplest thing it means is every time a cell divides, a piece of the telomere is
used up.
This is why we age is because the telomere is a brace against mutation.
I may have this wrong.
I'm not an expert and it's been a long time since I've looked at texts and such about
this.
I think it's a hedge against mutation.
It may do some checksumming or the cell may use the telomere to do something like a checksum
to ensure that replication goes better than it would without one.
In any case, as a cell ages, probably it acquires a library of mutations and the telomere
keeps cells, it basically keeps a count of cell divisions.
It limits the number of cell divisions, thus reducing the number of mutations.
If I understand this properly in my memory, it serves me well.
It's a little bit like a zipper.
By all means, take some time and learn some basic stuff about telomeres.
It was thought that wild type, meaning in the wild mice, had long telomeres because the
lab mice had long telomeres.
Brett decided to figure out why that was so.
Probably had a suspicion that long telomeres could be problematical in drug testing.
We test pharmaceuticals on these mice.
Brett went out and got some wild mice.
He bought some lab mice, which are supposed to be wild type, and what he discovered was
that, and this is the fucking problem.
This is exactly what I'm here to talk about today.
What he discovered is that wild type mice have regular old telomeres, they're not long.
The mice that were being touted as wild type and sold to labs all over the world were mostly
from a single lab.
That lab was breeding.
If you overbite on the other side, they're much easier to see because there's a hole.
I went there earlier, but I think they were in their nest and I'm not active right now.
They're recruiting the parents to feed them.
They're getting really well fed.
What he discovered is that the wild mice had regular telomeres.
The lab mice had very long telomeres because the breeding protocols of the lab suppliers
were using the strongest, healthiest young mice, never used older mice.
They had naturally bred long telomere test mice.
What that turns out to mean is that when you do pharmaceutical experiments and you test
them on mice and you try to test all kinds of different features of drug efficacy and
danger, mice with long telomeres are going to heal much better than regular mice would.
By the way, there's a, I think Eric's kind of ashamed of this one, but there's a great
discussion between Eric and Brett about this, that Eric recorded probably seven, six, seven
years ago now that tells this whole story and it's really worth listening to if you have
an interest in biology.
Sweet potato fries to go, I guess.
If you have an interest in biology and particularly cell division, anything involving cell division.
It turns out that Brett discovered this and his discoveries, as I understand it, his discoveries
were effectively stolen by somebody who I think went on to get a Nobel Prize from this
work and also they did eventually go back and fix the mouse problem, I think, at the
primary mouse producing lab.
But in the meantime, what happened is, and this is really tragic, probably hundreds of
thousands, maybe millions of people died from drug effects that didn't show up in the mouse
model because the mice had unusually well-developed telomeres, telomeres and could heal better.
Survive effects that ordinary animals would not survive and so I think it was what, erythromycin,
if I'm not mistaken, killed up a bunch of people by fucking up their hearts.
And this is something that happens in humans a lot.
You saw this going on with the COVID vaccine, fucked up people's hearts or just killed
them outright and, you know, a bunch of furious lying has been going on about the vaccine.
For sure, not maybe.
That's a slightly different topic, but on the same page.
So if your mice are super harm resistant and you're testing pharmaceutical drugs on them
to determine what's safe in humans, you know, there's supposed to be extended trials beyond
the mouse model that happen in drugs that are going to be widely distributed or whatever.
Obviously, that must have fallen down too and it wasn't just erythromycin.
There were many pharmaceutical drugs that killed people or produced really severe side
effects because, in part, because the testing model was broken.
We had genetically engineered supermice and we were testing pharmaceuticals on supermice,
not ordinary mice, not regular animals.
We had accidentally produced gain of function telomeres and you might say like, well, why
don't we just give humans longer telomeres, well, you know, you could slow down the aging
process quite a bit, but what you'd get is a profusion of cancer.
Those animals have a lifespan in a purposeful way, it's not an accident.
