Also the idea that we are our body is probably, I would say, nearly certainly wrong.
It is the ideology of science to presume this.
That's a dumb presumption, again, no evidence for this.
People will say, well, what about unconsciousness and stuff?
Yeah, go ahead, say whatever you like.
Unconsciousness doesn't tell you how to determine it, how to interpret it.
You can say, well, if you damage certain parts of the brain, blah, blah, blah, yeah,
that's true in the body, at the scale of the body, that's true.
You have no idea what's going on in consciousness and you have all kinds of complex reports
of what are called emergent phenomenon things where people who are supposedly, you know,
you have a whole fabulously detailed reports from like the atheist neurosurgeon who died.
His brain should never have recovered, it was profusely septic and he should have just
stayed dead.
And so here we're starting to get toward the problem that I want to actually talk about
today.
We depend on science as a species both to
jumpstart our technologies, which again, you know, we haven't formed any societies intelligent
enough to survive those technologies.
So it's very obvious that we are racing toward a wall of plasma or something like, it's not
even a brick wall, it's something way worse than that.
As a species, we are accelerating downhill toward 1,900 different kinds of disasters
that will eventually, you know, one of the 19 will snuff us, or most of life on Earth
are both.
Now it's not, as Dr. K argues, it's not certain that they'll snuff us.
And Dr. K is, there's no evidence kind of scientist, but so he likes to say, there's
no evidence that humans can wipe out the humans.
Nuclear war won't do that.
We've been through shit before.
This is the we've been through shit before argument, and it's also Earth is really resilient.
Well, I'm pretty sure that a single human being can presently armed with a little bit
of uncommon intelligence, pose a threat to the entirety of cellular life on Earth, with
a simple technological gambit that a single person could pull off with about 15 grand.
So you know, and whether or not that's true, it soon will be.
If your goal is to take down the biosphere, and you're armed with, you know, a little
bit of AI and some CRISPR tech, you can probably pull that shit off.
You can probably point a gun at the planet and say, give me everything or we all die.
Or you know, whatever you want to say.
And unfortunately sooner or later, that's going to happen.
Presuming something else doesn't intervene.
But that's not, again, my point.
So what I want to talk about is a problem with knowledge.
And the problem is that the knowledge that we think of as objective, the knowledge that
we get from science, is quite authoritative.
I mean, compared to the regular stuff we play with, it's vastly more trustworthy.
Because it's not just based on syllogisms, though axioms are involved.
Whereas most of our knowledge is propositional, right?
Someone proposes that, someone proposes that blah, blah, blah.
And then we, you know, go around arguing about it and so forth.
That's propositional.
A lot of the knowledge in that we get from science, and there's, you know, all the different
branches of the tree.
Science really, it's unreasonable from one perspective to think of it as a single endeavor.
What we might want to think of it as a way of knowing.
You know, a vast forest of methods and protocols that help to limit our capacity to make catastrophic
mistakes of identity, function, value, so forth.
It's analytical.
It's abstract.
In the sense that it's, it forges systematic methods, protocols, and perspectives.
I can't quote the principles of the scientific method.
But there's a couple that are sort of well known.
Something that isn't falsifiable cannot be pursued scientifically.
So if it's unavailable to proof or disproof, it's speculation or philosophy in terms of
ways of knowing or, you know, opinion.
And generally, science as practiced modernly is a bit combative.
You don't just go out looking for proof for your pet theory the way that the people with
opinions do, or speculations or ideas, you secular is the word.
Jordan Peterson proposed opined that perhaps thought was kind of the secular version of
prayer.
And I think it's a really beautiful, interesting idea whether or not you are religious.
So you can have the experience of prayer even if you are not religious, just to be clear.
One might ask, well, why would you do that?
Well, you know, if you're driving down the street with your children in the back of
the car and you see in the slow time that often happens during accidents that your
car is about to be hit by a semi truck and there is zero things you can do about it,
time has slowed down.
In that time, you might very well appeal to anything that might be listening.
And that would be a kind of prayer.
All right, so yeah, secular, secular prayer, thought as secular prayer, love that idea.
Of course, some kinds of thought qualify better than others.
I think Peterson means speculative thought, which involves asking questions.
Just saw a guy wearing a t-shirt that said, we are supposed to be different.
Each word was on one line, top to bottom.
And the last word was spelled and printed backwards.
As if it's not actually mirrored.
I don't think it's actually mirrored.
All right, so back to our topic.
The authoritative nature of scientific endeavor, research, publishing, thought, technology
transfer, drug development, and so forth, all of these things.
This is a vast enterprise among the humans.
There are branches on the tree of science that are, what, non-professional, right?
There are people who do various kinds of science that don't work for universities or labs,
that are self-made, if you will.
All kinds of different human expressions of the possibilities that this word points toward.
And the human ways of knowing, they are trees in the same forest.
They inform each other.
Science informs art.
Math informs art, science, history, even religion.
So you have many ways of knowing, perhaps nine or ten primary ones, perhaps less, five
or six.
It depends on how you want to draw the circles.
And they interact and often cooperate, you know, developmentally.
Someone would ask, you know, well, how does art inform science?
Well, take away all the music for the past 400 years.
Let there be no music.
Let there be no sculpture, no dance, no plays, no acting.
Would you have the same scientific findings?
Would you have the same scientists?
I don't think so.
No, not at all, there's enough room for all of us.
Politics affects science.
Not supposed to.
Religion affects science.
There are scientists who are not productive materialists.
Robert Sheldrake is one of them.
So too in his way, although Berlinsky is a mathematician, Berlinsky is religious.
Stephen Meyer, brilliant computational scientist and biologist, is not an eliminative materialist.
Like Dan Dennett, who is an eliminative materialist.
And I'm pretty sure, at least Dr. K tells me this, has never conducted a single experiment
in his life.
So how are you a scientist if you don't do research?
Dennett, and I don't know his work well, and he seems an interesting mind to me.
When I have looked at some of his writing and stuff, I can learn from that guy for sure,
no doubt.
What have we here?
This is the kind of thing I dreamed of when I was a kid.
Oh, it's a brand new Ferrari.
Yeah, there's a piece of technology I wouldn't mind playing with.
Yeah, that was my wet dream as a child, to have a Ferrari in the future.
I mean, these days what I'd like to have is an old Volvo, but I can't really have one
here unless I have a garage to put it in, which is just too damn expensive, because
people will fuck it up and steal it and stuff.
Yeah, I'd like to have one of those old Vovas like the Saint Drove, it's a P185 or something
maybe.
I can't remember.
And I was actually looking at them yesterday, and I could probably buy one.
I could get one, but I have no place to put it, and I definitely can't afford.
It's not worth, I'd have to pay rent just to keep it safe, but otherwise I would definitely
have one.
That would be a blast.
I love old cars.
Old cars are much richer and have so much more character than what people make today.
So that Ferrari two-seater was pretty sporty.
All right, back to the topic, which I really haven't even gotten to yet.
So many people have remarked of late about problems in the academy and problems in science,
particularly around what Eric Weinstein calls gatekeeping, which means a preferential selectiveness
over who gets to do science and what kind of science gets done in the academy.
And probably even in industry, but primarily in the academy where we would presume scientific
education begins.
And he's right.
And of course, then there's a third problem, which is gatekeeping over the journals.
So this means preferential treatment, not just of authors, but of ideologies, which is definitely
not supposed to be a part of what science is.
Science is not an ideological affair, infrastructure, structure.
It is an affair of veracity, of integrity, of honesty, hard work.
You form a hypothesis, you try to defeat it every way you can.
You get experts in the field to try to tear your hypothesis down and show you why it can't
be true.
And only after all of that do you publish.
And Eric is claiming this whole affair has become profoundly corrupt.
And he's right.
Scientific careers depend on publishing.
So if anything captures or interferes with publishing, you're pretty much screwed as
a scientist, at least as a professional scientist.
And he's arguing that the journals are not just currying favor, they're publishing bullshit,
which both things are true.
And that the, I think he's also arguing that the peer review process is corrupt, which
is also almost certainly the case.
At least there must be examples of this that are common.
It's not saying it never works.
I don't think he's saying it never works.
He's saying there's poison in the water and nobody's fixing it.
We're not, not only are we not fixing it, we keep dumping more poison in.
And I think he's right.
But there is a weirder problem.
While I was listening, and again, this is the kind of thing, what I'm going to be talking
about is partly theoria in the sense of a way of seeing, a way of looking at something.
I'm not arguing yet that what I'm saying is a fact.
Often in science, one produces a privileged containment context in which to do experiments.
We want to quote control for unexpected variability.
We want to make sure that we don't have a contaminated situation.
We want to be able to trust our own variables.
So, you know, we produce these contexts that are extremely unnatural.
And then we test stuff in them.
Nothing ever grew up in a box.
If you raised a child in a box that was, you know, evicted from all of nature, well, first
of all, you wouldn't be able to keep the child alive.
You'd have to import microbes and shit into the situation, and you'd have to select them
and so forth.
But if you raised a child in a box with no living beings, it would not get a human.
And so there's a fundamental problem with the way we test.
We presume that phenomena that exist in nature can be found in the laboratory.
Not true.
That is not true.
There is a selection of phenomena that exist in nature that can be found in the laboratory,
a subset of phenomena.
But because the laboratory is a construct in a way that nature isn't, and because it
is an intentionally limited construct, we must realize that there are phenomena in nature
that will be recalcitrant to reproduction in laboratories.
And so we have to test, we have to find a different way of testing for them, looking
for them.
