Hello everybody.
I was listening to a podcast with a few, I think there was like a guy who was hosting
it, a researcher who had recently published a paper called Something Like What Do Algorithms
and Bernardo Castro, who is one of the more brilliant minds I've come across lately.
Not claiming I agree with him, but Bernardo is so intelligent that like agreement isn't
the issue.
That's just stops even being a question.
We live in a time where apparently humans are battling each other with ideological weapons
and some think they have a superior weapon to the other peoples.
There's some argument for Israel obliterating Gaza and there's some argument for Iran unleashing
apocalypse on Israel and there's some argument, you know, there's a million arguments, right?
And everyone thinks they've got the right ideology.
Let me just be really clear.
If you're navigating in mind space based on ideologies, you are fucked.
You don't have a fucking chance.
Your capacity for intelligence will go down near zero and it will only rise as you rage
from your ideological throne and the direction it will rise in is the direction where it
will weaponize itself against your own intelligence.
We'll be unto those who weaponize their intelligence via ideology, especially these days because
that's the primary viral petri dish that's being intentionally manipulated.
So be careful about that.
You know, I've had friends look down their nose at me because I listened to anyone.
Brett Weinstein, Eric Weinstein, Jordan Peterson, fucking J.K. Rowling.
You think I'm not going to listen to brilliant authors, musicians, dancers, actors, speakers,
professors because I have an ideological problem with them?
There's no chance of that happening.
Impossible.
I don't learn based on ideological favoritism or exclusionism.
If I were to do so, it wouldn't matter which ideology I picked.
I would be a bird with one feather.
So I'm also at the same time not saying that I have zero participation in ideology.
Of course I have various spoons in various pots in the kitchen of ideologies, but I rarely
go around as an ideological warrior brandishing my sword in public, not never.
When I do, it's usually, I don't know, about something that's pretty obviously lethal for
humans to keep doing.
Or me, right?
I mean, a lot of the time the more upset I am about something, the more ironic the fact
that I'm upset becomes because there's some projection involved, right?
There's like, I've got inner insecurities or failings and I see them somehow reflected
in the world and not being quite bold enough to, or it's not just courage.
I'm courageous.
I'll go look.
I kind of, just like many humans, I need a skillful wing person or two to hold my hand
while I go to Mount Doom, you know, to where my psyche keeps its poison.
So I therefore have failed to go and don't realize that I'm really upset because I see
a reflection of my own failings in the anti-culture I'm surrounded by and, you know, so I react.
Human.
I'm an actual human being.
I am fraught with human failings and I'm trying to see better and learn.
I'm pretty sure that's a lot of why we come to incarnation.
That's not an excuse.
I'm just trying to be honest.
So, you know, be careful about picking up ideological weapons and sides and so forth.
There's a lot of memetic pathology intentionally being injected into the human cognisium and
particularly the West at the moment.
In the countries injecting it, their ideology is nationalistic, right, or religious, or
both, religiously nationalistic.
So that's lethal too.
Like birds with their wings snipped off and missing all the feet on one of their legs,
we humans suffer catastrophically when our perspectival faculties are amputated or replaced
with prosthetic ideals that are fundamentally untrustworthy.
Their origins are untrustworthy, but that's not actually what I'm here to talk about today.
That is that little section of my talk relates to having seen a lot of vitriol and hatred
and trolling on the Internet.
I don't know if you can hear the bird sound.
But there's heron chicks, and they seem to be quite well fed, but they're trying to
recruit feeding from the parents.
So, what I'm thinking about today, what I was listening to was some discussions of
findings related to an intentional introduction of tarratogens to embryonic cohorts, and usually
I didn't realize that I thought tarratogenesis was referred to cancer causing, but apparently
not.
We introduced tarratogens to disturb the process of embryogenesis, and what I'm really interested
to find out, and I'm pretty sure I know the answer, because they would have said something
I think, but what they were saying, which was relatively surprising, was that larger
groups of embryos, I don't know what kind they were using, adjusted better.
What they discovered to their surprise was that larger groups of embryos solved tarratogenic
problems faster and more effectively.
And also, which I'm not sure how they tested this, because this is a fairly strange finding,
in a sense, groups that contained embryos which had had experience of previous solving
of certain tarratogenic problems were the best at solving the problems.
So this indicates that the embryos are communicating.
Now what I don't know is what they mean by a cohort.
It sounds like they probably mean embryos in a contiguous medium of some kind, right?
So like, I don't know, 15 embryos in some gel-like matrix that can support their development
and not fuck them up, and into which tarratogens can be introduced.
Now this doesn't surprise me at all.
In fact, the expectations of modern science surprise me much more, because it looks pretty
ass-backwards to me in a lot of ways, so I'm going to talk about one of those ways today.
Also one can imagine upon hearing this, and the other findings from this group, which
are even trippier, let's see if I can get this right.
So imagine you have an array of numbers that meets at the end, we'll call it a string
of numbers, right?
So there are cells in a circle, there could be a hundred of them, and
the ends of the string meet.
So if we number the cells, they number from one to a hundred, and cell one and cell one
hundred meet.
And the algorithm, all it does is, it's a sorting algorithm, so they put hundred numbers
in there, probably integers, and they put them in at random, and they want to end up
with a sorted array, and this is a common, this is like one of the first programming
problems you would be given, because it helps you understand sorting, and there's a bunch
of different ways to accomplish that process.
What these people were doing is very simple.
It has no unknown parts, right?
They have an incredibly simple algorithm, they actually code each number with the simple
algorithm that the language you use, which I think was pretty strange to hear from scientists
about numbers, is if a number finds that it's happier where it is, it will stay there,
right?
If it's four, it wants to have three on one side, five on the other, right?
That's what the scientist said, but what we should actually think about is that the algorithm
codes for evaluation and cell swapping.
So if it finds 97 on one side and 24 on the other, and it's a four, it won't presume
which direction, I don't think, they didn't say this, but I don't think it presumes direction.
It may presume the gradient of high to one side, low to the left.
It may notice that, and thus test a leftward move if it wants to go lower.
So the numbers rearrange themselves according to this algorithm, and they found some unusual
things, which is that numbers with certain qualities like, apparently, prior to the final
sort position, hang out in little clades where the numbers share certain unique qualities.
For example, perhaps being even numbers, or multiples of two or something, right, like
they find that there's clumpiness in the interim between, while the numbers are traveling,
they clump up in ways that the algorithm has nothing to do with.
And so, now I haven't listened to the rest of this, I've only really listened to maybe
the first ten minutes of this discussion.
Now obviously, Rupert Sheldrake, with his, and boy does that guy get shade from scientists.
Wow, they hate him.
Rupert is roundly despised because it's anathema to believe that there are anything but physical
atomic or direct electromagnetic connections between organisms, and by direct electromagnetic
I don't mean distributed hypersystem of intelligence.
I mean, the organisms can be, you can detect an electromagnetic signal from one that travels
to the other, and so forth.
And by the way, with the embryos, they did detect signaling.
They weren't able to conclusively determine all of the pathways, but, uh, wow.
Sorry, I've just got up the hill a bit and I've noticed the poison.
The poison they put in the water.
Oh, wow, is that a bee swarm?
What is that?
I don't know what it is.
And there's a word for an airborne gathering of mating insects, and I can't recall that
I learned it after I found a rare wood-boring wasp from New Zealand here.
It's probably a little bit like an agregor.
The word might be a little bit like that.
So Sheldrake is a proponent of the idea of what he calls morphogenic fields.
And morphogen means shape-make, right?
Morphous form or shape.
Genic means to generate.
Sygenic means mind-generating.
The sun turns out to be sygenic.
If you couple it with a world with liquid water and so forth, right, you're going to
get mines around there eventually, and probably right quick.
The earth is sygenic, right?
A couple of planets like this with the sun and the moon, and perhaps the other planets
as well, probably, and you're going to get mines.
So if you think that way, then you realize that the idea that humans have, that there
was some grand mechanical accident, right?
It's a give me one miracle gambit.
Give me the big bang, and I'll mechanically explain everything else.
Penrose hates this argument, and he's right to do so.
And whatever the bang was, it's certainly an event, if it's even an event.
It's a situation we are woefully ill-equipped to categorize.
We certainly don't have, we don't even have categories for stuff that generates categories.
And you can't say meta-category, because that's really just a category.
So you have to have categories for things that generate the possibility of mines, beings,
souls, relationships, you know, all of the peculiarly misunderstood features of physics
and so forth, misunderstood by humans.
So Sheldrake has this theory that, huh, what the hell was that?
I saw a creature, and I don't know what it was.
Must have been a mouse or something, I guess.
The thing that I'm actually hoping, what would be awesome is if somebody introduced
blue-bellied lizards here, that would be rad.
We need some reptiles.
I don't know why there's no reptiles here, other than turtles.
So Sheldrake's morphogenetic fields theory is a very, I'm going to be very trivial in
the way that I talk about it, but it's essentially the idea that, or casual would be better work.
It's the idea that it gets progressively easier locally, probably localized, I'm presuming
the effect is localized.
There could be ways to distribute it.
It might be distributed and local.
To produce forms once you've done it once, right?
After you get the first salt crystal, it's much easier.
It requires less time, work, failure, so forth, to produce another one.
And so there's this sort of contagiousness of form now.
I'm not sure if Sheldrake's a genius about how he frames his theory, but the idea makes
a lot of sense.
If you observe processes in nature, there tends to be a luxurious reiteration.
You know, you get in a petri dish that's being flash frozen, or a large dish of a thin layer
of water.
Once you get the first ice crystal, the whole thing crystallizes almost instantaneously
after that.
You can slow it down to, I don't know what, a million frames per second or something,
and then what you'll probably see is multiple origin points.
There will be a first one, most likely, to won't exactly temporally coincide, probably
a first one.
You see similar processes if you examine every agenesis and stuff like this.
If you could watch, for example, with an electron microscope, which would probably fail because
that thing kills what it looks at, but I'm pretty sure.
But presume you could take electron micrographs piece by piece as a photographer named Nielsen
did in the 80s of the steps along the embryogenic process.
You would see similar kinds of transformation within the egg cell.
I saw a video somehow of two researchers observing the embryogenesis in a, what looked
like some kind of bird egg, where the embryogenesis was happening in a shellless state.
I found it very troubling.
