And so that's one problem.
A lot of the lab tests for telepathy and such appear to have been intentionally tampered
with with the purpose of failing to produce results.
Not all of them, but some of them for sure.
And we do see this kind of thing going on in certain branches of science.
And we see, we can find studies that appear to disprove or debunk or evict phenomena.
Or a phenomena, a phenomenon.
I always get confused about that.
There are studies that are done occasionally to disprove things.
There's no such thing as telepathy, out of body experiences.
All UFOs are just misidentified stuff we know about already, blah, blah, blah, blah, list
goes on.
The COVID vaccine is safe and effective, bullshit, straight up lying.
And politically motivated lying.
It's not medically motivated lying, it's politically motivated lying.
So I mean, as far as the vaccines go, modestly effective, not unaffected, modestly effective,
and modestly safe.
It didn't kill a million people, it only probably killed, I don't know, so far maybe, wild guess
it'd be 300, 400,000 worldwide, I don't know.
So we get fake science, right?
We get science done to show that something can't be done that is actually real.
And then we also get ideological bias.
Nobody's paying attention to Sheldrake's papers because it goes against the prevailing ideological
underpinnings of illuminative materialism.
Everything's physical, life is an accident, the universe is dead inside.
Zero evidence for those ideological positions.
They don't belong in science.
Any science that goes around telling you things are impossible, you can already see the problem,
right?
Because it presumes complete knowledge.
It's unscientific.
And it is ontologically tyrannical.
It declares what can and can't be true or possible.
And let's be clear, if you have 0.0003% knowledge of reality, and that would be a huge boost
to what humans actually have access to presently, going around making declarative statements
about what can't be is the pinnacle of hubris, right?
They're just idiotic.
So when you hear people saying, you know, this is impossible, it's impossible to travel
to Alphacenturi spontaneously, there's no evidence for that claim.
There's no evidence either way.
We don't have strong evidence that it's possible.
But we could go looking for evidence of that possibility.
If we intended to do so open-mindedly and with integrity, we could go looking.
My goodness, I have worn too much clothing today.
That is for sure.
Used to the cold breeziness.
So we have a problem in science in that the laboratory is unnatural.
If you go testing for telepathy, what you want to test, the people you want to test
are like mothers and their children.
If you're trying to find the result, what you want to do is test people who are extremely
intimate because it's very obvious that these people synchronize and that changes what's
going on.
So you can see there's like a prejudice, there's a sort of prejudice to the laboratory and
the prejudice is eliminate as many variables as possible.
If you're trying to determine whether a phenomenon exists or not, you need to have something
like the actual world, not a laboratory, to look for it in.
You probably want to look for it in the natural world first and then play around with producing
a laboratory context in which you could reliably determine its prevalence or non-prevalence.
So we have that problem.
We have the problem of the abstract container.
Nobody kisses a wall and most of life is intimate and symbiotic.
So the lab is kind of the wrong place to see a bunch of the features of organisms and we
see this problem exactly in what Brett discovered about the mice.
Labs were producing the mice that labs were testing with.
When he went out into nature and got actual mice, what did he find?
Shorter telomeres, which would have made everyone freak out in terror had they realized that
because they would know that the medical testing was bad, wrong, which is also what was implied
by the scientists whose research I spoke about with the embryos earlier.
There's a problem with our testing because if the cohorts of test subjects are all together,
they can group, solve, teratogenesis and individuals can't do that.
So this could be a whole new branch of medical testing tech if his theories turn out to be
validatable or repeatable.
Okay, but here's the actual problem.
When you're looking at data, you throw anomalies away and that's the key problem right there
because first of all, many of the most profound discoveries in science.
What hooked the people who discovered them were anomalous results or things that might
ordinarily be disregarded or things that were features of experiments that were disregarded
because we had no explanation for them and they comprised such a tiny percentage of the
cohort that we just decided they didn't matter.
Well, I got news for you.
Anomalies fucking matter.
They matter in heuristic pursuit.
They matter in epistemological concern and they matter in ontological concern and they
don't matter a little bit, they matter a lot.
I mean this is part of Nassim Nicholas Taleb's argument in the Black Swan.
No one predicted Google, are you going to tell me it didn't matter?
Google doesn't matter?
Twitter don't matter?
Instagram, Pinterest, TikTok, TAMU, these things don't matter?
Now here's a flute player making good use of the natural reverb of the tunnel.
It's like he's also making good use of the natural reverb of the tunnel, he's making good use of
the natural reverb of the tunnel.
I also got a piccolo and something that looks like a huge flute but I'm not sure what that
is but he's playing an actual flute.
And by the way, think about jazz music.
It's mostly sequential anomalies, it's like a floating anomaly sequence.
Often those aren't actually scales, they're little pieces of scales strung together improvisationally,
crazy temporalities and it strikes me that for all the orderliness of nature, it also
bears a strong resemblance to jazz, it improvises.
And if you're only looking for the reliable, repeatable structures, you might be missing
the most important things.
You might be missing the intelligence underlying the situation because you previously decided
it can't be there.
It's impossible, there's no evidence for the context is intelligent.
Meanwhile, you come from the context, you are intelligent, you are touching the experiments,
you are communicating intelligence into the experiments by participating as an intelligent
being and in the ways you forge the context and exclude certain data and include other
data and so forth.
I mean, imagine the ironic problem of human beings attempting to prove that life can spontaneously
develop without intelligent interference or influence, right?
Well you are intelligent and you are running the experiments.
So how do you enclose the context so perfectly that no influence from your own intelligence
intrudes into the experimental containment, right?
I mean, we really don't have any way to do that.
We try to do things like, well, enclose it in glass in a Faraday cage.
It doesn't matter.
You made the glass, you made the Faraday cage, right?
The instruments themselves are part of the physics.
The instruments become part of the biology.
You can't separate the biology and the instruments if there's an enclosure of any kind, right?
But the main thing that science does is it chops off the anomalies.
And this, by the way, is how we get deadly pharmaceutical drugs, right?
You sculpt the data.
You sculpt the data to show efficacy.
You sculpt the data to show safety, you shave off anomalies.
Everyone knows you shave the anomalies off.
We've been doing that, you know?
So you can certainly hide teraedogenic harm that way.
Or what is the other word for ... Okay, come on, hippocampus, you're on.
Don't freeze up, bro.
Iatrogenic harm.
Intentional harm done by ... Well, we presume it's unintentional.
In the case of falsifications of the safety of techniques and or drugs, that's not unintentional.
That's malignant, right?
That's malevolent.
That's intentional harm.
And this is part of why medicine should not be a business.
And science should not be a business either.
Once either of those become captured by economy, they're going to go south, right, toward bad
output and bad outcomes, undesirable outcomes, deception, duplicitousness, and so forth.
But here's the really weird thing.
If it is common in our scientific behavior, research and development, and so forth, to
shave off the anomalies and throw them away, then we're going to miss a lot of what's
there.
And there's a way in which it's efficacious to shave off the anomalies.
But as I was saying before, a lot of really profound science starts with someone who asks
the question, you know, why are they throwing this data away?
Why are they ignoring the anomaly?
What does the anomaly have to tell us?
John Vervecchi was singing Piaget's brilliance the other day when he said, you know, he went
looking for systematicity in the errors in intelligence tests.
Everyone else thought, oh, the errors are just noise, right?
Nope, they're not noise.
Turns out there is systematicity in the errors, which gives us the other side of a coin that
we need to see both sides of to be seeing it all.
And often this is the case.
The truth gets lost in the sorting algorithm that tosses the anomalies and validates the
remainder.
You know, I have seen things happen in my life, ordinary things, that I'm pretty sure
they were probabilistically, effectively impossible.
Is that there would be zero other instances of or the expectation that there would be,
you know, no one would believe if they had not seen it that it had occurred.
Nature is in the same way a statistical array of variables is generalizable, but the outliers
are crucial to include because that leads us that that's what takes us in the direction
beyond our suppositions of truth, authority, completeness, and so forth.
And I would argue that most of the stuff that's truly important to understand much of the stuff
that we need to be able to get at if we are to learn and grow and develop understanding
is getting thrown away by large chunks of science.
Now, you know, science today is still a very diverse pool of endeavor.
And there are people who are aware of what I'm talking about and trying to, in their
own way, to, you know, plant their flag on some specific anomaly or the inclusion of
anomalous results in research.
But I think we're missing a big part of the picture because anomaly gets thrown away.
And this is part of why we didn't discover, for example, that cohorts of embryos can solve
teraedogenic problems better than, you know, large cohorts better than small cohorts and
small cohorts better than single embryos.
That implies something, I mean, that implies something very profound, particularly if there's
any, if we eventually find evidence that you can put a diverse cohort of different kinds
of embryos together and they can solve problems better.
That implies some kind of a field effect or a feature of the context that we have not
yet been able to elucidate or detect.
So my own perspective is many of the most important things that lie undiscovered by science.
It doesn't mean none of them know humans know about them.
Science isn't the only way to discover things.
It's not the only heuristic or didactic way of knowing.
There are many branches of spirituality that are incredibly profound in their production
of intelligent understanding, awareness, and knowledge, particularly traditions that rely
on meditative practice.
And anyone who's ever meditated knows there's a radical difference between doing it by yourself
and doing it with a group.
I mean, they might as well be two different things from, you know, if what you're looking
at is actually the distinction.
So it's also probably true in our own lives.
Anomalies matter hugely, right?
Most of our life goes along relatively normatively until boom, you know, something happens.
A few weeks ago, there's a garden around the corner from my house.
A few weeks ago, the gardeners there discovered a bag with $50,000 in it.
That's happened zero times in the history of that garden.
If we were going to throw out the anomalies, we would presume that it's impossible for
$50,000 to appear in that garden, but it wasn't.
