Someone dumped a bag with 50 grand in cash in that garden.
Within one or two days of them finding it, you know.
These matter.
They're hugely important.
So if we dismiss them for the sake of generalizability or perceived universality, we're making a
huge heuristic error there.
It doesn't mean that we need to, you know, only concentrate on the anomalies, but throwing
them out for the sake of finishing the study or, you know, presenting what we would like
to presume our conclusive results, that's idiotic.
And I'm not saying there's no place for that either.
There's a branch of practice where that's crucial to do, but then we also have to go
back and try to understand, okay, what produced, you know, where did the stuff we weren't expecting
come from?
I mean, that's how heuristics works.
That's how science works, is how learning works.
So I will probably continue to chase this topic at a later date, but for now I'm going
to wrap up and I'm so grateful for all of you who listen.
And I hope you found something fascinating in your own developmental experience today,
tomorrow, this week, next week.
I look forward to learning together again very soon, and I'm so grateful for this time
and your attention.
May your way be beautiful.
Bye-bye for now.
Okay, unfortunately, I neglected one of the things that I wanted to talk about.
Sheldrake went looking on purpose for records from, I think, the late 1800s where the speed
of light was differently measured.
In other words, it was being measured in different places and they were getting different values.
And the values varied by as much as 20 kilometers per second, which given the precision with
which we can measure things presently is a huge amount.
And he was very curious about this problem.
So he went to the sort of British authority over metrics.
I can't remember what this is called, but there's basically a central authority over
weights, metrics, values, numbers, and so forth.
And he talked with the head of the organization.
And he told him what was going on.
Look, I found these different measurements of the speed of light.
And the guy said, oh, oh, too bad, you know, I'm sorry you were confused that way.
We fixed that problem a long time ago.
You found one of the sort of messes in the historical closet.
You can forget about that.
Sheldrake said, how did you fix the problem?
And the guy said, oh, well, we defined the meter in terms of the speed of light.
And Sheldrake said, but that means that if it changes or if it's different in certain
places or under certain conditions, you won't know.
The guy said, exactly, we solved the problem so you can forget about it.
Now, I don't know what the actual implications of that solution are, but you can see in this
a problem with the normalization of data that should diverge.
You should be getting different readings under different circumstances.
And we decide, well, no, we don't want that.
That makes it look unscientific or whatever the problem is.
And so you just normalize one of the foundational metrics.
And thereafter, you don't have the problem of anomalies anymore because you modified
your measurement system to account for them.
And this leads to a secondary problem, which is the problem of the presumption that effects
detected in the laboratory are or can expected to be both A universal in space.
They are the same everywhere, which certainly can't be true.
There's no chance of that being true.
They're not the same in gravity wells, and we live in one.
And then also that they're the same over time, which is also clearly not the case for many,
many different kinds of variables.
Certainly for biological variables, they are not the same over time.
Younger animals are essentially a different thing from younger animals, even though they
have a lot in common.
But what if, how would we even know if fundamental constants are changing if we modify our metrics
to occlude the possibility of us perceiving the transformation?
And you know, time space is weird stuff.
There's a lot we don't know about it, the Earth and the Sun are traveling through it.
What if it has characteristics that have effects on things that we consider to be constants?
And we should at least be able to think about that as a possibility, rather than just outright
declaring that constants are called constants because they're unchanging.
Well, you can declare all the things you want about nature, but nature doesn't care.
It's going to do what it's actually doing, and again we see this sort of tyrannical hubris
rather than open-minded inquiry, and that, again, is not the spirit of science.
That's the spirit of ideology.
It's likely that certain things change over time, and one thing that the experimenters
never suspected is that, for example, algorithms run on machines.
Consider the difference between a world in the context of a world where you have basic
computers like we had in the 60s and 70s, and the difference between that world and
a world where you have advanced computers like we had in the 80s and 90s, and the difference
between that and a world where you have artificial intelligence computers doing trillions of
computations per picosecond over the planetary surface.
This changes what it means to be a planet, so lots of things could change.
Certainly if anything even resembling Sheldrake's concerns about morphogenic fields exists,
the onset of artificial intelligence systems and hypercomputational systems changes what
it means to be a planet and probably changes what computation is.
We keep presuming that all of the computers are separate, that they don't have a shared
context.
It's not true.
They do have a shared context.
It's called time space, and it's time space local to this planet, so that's a shared context.
That can change dramatically over time.
We may discover that the things that we expected to be objectively structured, repeatable
phenomena aren't.
As a species, we don't really believe that that category of phenomena exists.
It does.
There are categories of phenomena that are inherently anomalous.
They don't fit in our categories.
They are not repeatable.
They are real.
We don't know what they are, and probably human technological behavior is affecting
that situation here on Earth in ways that we are certainly unprepared to predict, especially
if we think, well, mechanical function always functions the same in all situations.
It's just not true.
There's a lot here to explore, and we have a lot more to learn as a species.
I think we're about to get some rude awakenings on a couple of these fronts where we think,
for example, there are scientific ideologies that are eliminatively materialistic.
I'm just like, yeah, good luck with that.
I think that has a lifespan of about 20 more years at most.
Thanks for joining me.
Peace out.
