Not just in humans.
Everything.
The whales, the dolphins, the birds.
Everything.
The vermin.
Everything.
The wheat.
Okay.
The grass.
The weeds.
The mushrooms.
Everything.
In rings, in a sphere.
That's how the world came.
I'm not making this up.
It's not a story.
It has nothing to do with drugs.
Zero.
This has to do with just looking at nature.
Just clearly look at it.
Okay.
It's one sphere of life.
And there's layers of it.
And they're all intimately intermeshed.
If you rip that apart and start replacing it with machines, you're doing the same thing to your mind because your mind is that.
And the way that this life instructs the space that we live on is absolutely crucial both to our intelligence and our evolutionary development.
If we burn that down to make machines, it doesn't come back.
See, you can't establish anciently evolved relational webs of life upon which your own intelligence floats like an emergent property.
In other words, like that candlelight.
Okay.
Now, if you take away all that wax, which is the relation, that candle will never be lit again.
When it goes out, it's gone.
And that can be done far more easily than humans are aware of in their hell bent on accomplishing it as far as I can tell.
We need a Robin Hood.
Let's explain a little more about how this gets going.
Robin Hood is sort of the proxy of the empty throne.
King Richard the Sun is far away fighting battles, gloriously leading us through space, right?
It's an absolute fact.
And his shield spread out before the entire solar system as he rockets through space and the planets orbit around him, making the most incredible spiral graph you could possibly imagine as a solar hero is just leading us, the pod hero of our entire universe, right?
Meanwhile, just the glory of his passing is enough to give us life and to color the earth with all of the hues of nature and living beings and all of the glory of human possibility and hope of intelligence and everything we've fought to become,
which we must not ever allow to be squandered by snakes.
We've overrun everything.
There's old indigenous tales about this all over the world.
I won't share them with you here.
We don't have time.
I've already gone too long.
Sure would is what you can trust because it's backed by co-empt petition.
What is a petition?
It means I get small petite eye on I turns on.
I get small.
I see with the small eye of the child who is her oh, but I'm a man.
And when I draw the bow, I draw for the purpose of all beings, not me ever.
It has nothing to do with me winning.
Only for them may I win.
There is no me to rise to any kind of victory.
No, I fall beneath them.
I fall low.
And when I fall low, I raise them up above me in a ring.
And this makes me their hero.
I act in their proxy for their hearts and dreams and their most true and deep purposes.
When we do this together, we are absolutely unstoppable.
I don't know why you can ask if it's science or magic or religion or nonsense.
It's actually a fact.
Anyone can show you we do it in sports teams.
So there's the evidence right that we are pod creatures.
We work best like this for a purpose that is very clearly defined in a context.
We understand on a mission of valor and victory and excellence,
which means literally to free all prisoners.
So when the evil sheriff nodding ham.
When he took over everything and recruited the people to attack each other in his name,
in the name of a tyrant above him.
I don't remember the whole story at the moment.
Gone on too long here.
But when the sheriff recruited like the people themselves to become snakes,
and then Robin went into the wood of shorewood, which is of course a hard one you can trust because it's not for him.
It's for everyone.
He took simple people and bound them together and gave them the unstoppable power
that would lift them all to back to liberty.
It wasn't about violence.
The people can't afford violence.
So their own sons and daughters that have been recruited to the police and the cops.
They can't have a war here, people.
Any hero.
He went right into their banquet, if I remember.
Challenged them by tossing a sacred deer sacrifice on the table.
And then taking them on right in their nest.
Because he knew that he was the proxy of the empty throne.
He was the champion of all living beings.
And his maid made Mariam.
Well...
She was like the sky in the ocean.
She was...
She was everything.
She was our own mothers and all mothers.
She was the meaning of mothers and children and beings of every kind.
And he was her champion.
And so because that's true, the reason why little pods of people connected to each other
within for each other and their world within for the history of life on earth
without any extra nonsense.
Without any religion.
You can have the toys of religion and science and folk wisdom and art and all of these things.
That's fine, but let's not take them too seriously because first and foremost
we must have the purpose of to be for life itself and intelligence each other in our world
for the treasures that we've come to learn and be together in life.
In the moments when we finally are free of the machine.
Long enough to get a glimpse.
Or when we fight free of the cage for each other to make a way as we're about to do now.
But the kind of fighting we're going to do is not going to be any kind of violence.
It's conversion. Again, you can't afford violence.
So you've got to win with beauty and finesse.
You have to turn the enemy's force against it so that you don't have to hurt them much.
But mostly hurt themselves or just fail.
And here's how it happens.
Once all of the beings in all of time are on your side and other beings we don't even know about possibly.
If there are any others, they probably don't want the earth to be torn apart by machines.
That's just a basic presumption that there's not a bunch of evil things out there trying to tear apart the earth
because generally life isn't like that.
It connects to itself so it likes having little diverse bubbles of really unique incredible powerful intelligence to connect to.
No, they all connect in the network so you don't want to tear it down.
Robin Hood's not just the hero of earth. He's the hero of everyone.
That's why he's the hero of the sun as well as the mother.
And he's the hero under the little hood.
That says, you know, I represent her, not you.
The little hood that goes over my head.
Yeah, not the one that feels back to reveal.
No, no, the snake.
Not that the snake is bad. Again, ungoverned by mothers.
Two towers like the SS.
Yeah, problem.
Not see, not see you.
What's you, Jew?
Jew is you, you tree.
Yeah, Jew, you, same tree.
Not see you, not see, see how that works.
Now that's just a toy.
I mean, I'm not saying that's true, but there's something going on in our languages that no one's paying any attention to,
whether it's playful or poetic, however you want to talk about it.
You should probably look a lot more closer than anyone's looked yet because no one has seen it.
No one. And people want to claim it, right?
Magicians want to claim it and secret cults want to claim it.
And, you know, all these kinds of traditions want to claim that they know, they don't know.
There's no evidence of it lying around.
I can show you things in your alphabet that will make you go, like,
it'll make you have a birthday party.
Let's put it that way.
Robin of the hood.
Yeah, he comes back.
He's the proxy of the empty throne.
So because of that, he owns all space and all space is intelligence.
Therefore, his arrow doesn't have to travel.
You can shoot last arrived first.
It'll split whatever's arrow at the bullseye because it hits every bullseye in all of time for every single purpose.
If his purpose is so pure and true that it pleases as many beings as humanly possible,
then he actually owns space and time itself because he becomes their avatar.
And the people around him, his pot, he's not him by himself.
See, Robin's not like this.
Robin is actually weirdly, he's probably like this thing here, but at least he is like this.
He's the avatar of this, you know, the thinking, acting, leading avatar.
Or maybe even this, who knows?
Maybe he's got an advisor behind him and he's just the best proxy of the empty throne or something.
But nonetheless, he's a being full.
He's an animal in the context of other beings intimately.
We are the kind of being where we don't even become animals until we're in a group like this intimate.
And this is kind of a sign of that's why I keep holding it up.
And what happens to us is we go into systems that break this apart.
And they hide this thing with stories about fear and necessity and war and duty and lies and fashion and style and religion.
The religion that happens is what happens when we do that, okay?
And we act and live and learn in this way with all the circles of life,
and all of the sort of Russian doll of all the different layers of anciently evolved living relation from which our own bodies and intelligence arise.
And we have a mutual relationship with these forces, right?
We can't just crush them down and then think that we're going to be okay in machines in space.
It's not going to happen that way.
So Robin Hood, because he is the true hero, the one who induces her oh, in every mother in all of time,
they all get all wiggly and squiggly when he comes around.
Because even the guys do, okay, come on.
Even the guys do. They know too.
Everyone's for Robin. Everyone except the snakes.
But the common people can become very confused when it's been a long time since Robin was near.
They're frightened. Those snakes are terrifying. It's not a joke.
Not all of them will join Robin.
But he probably doesn't get too many experts.
He gets maybe a few experts if he's lucky mostly.
What he gets is common people, and he lifts them up far above him.
That's why he's her own.
So when he shoots that arrow, every woman behind him, every man, every arrow that's ever been,
and it's almost as if the arrow is already at the bullseye before he's shot it.
He owns the bullseye. He owns the space between it.
If assassins come for him, how will they get through the space?
Things will destroy them on the way.
They'll be trying to run through something like sludge.
They'll be having accident after accident.
Things just aren't going to work right.
No, Robin is unstoppable.
And you are Robin because you succeeded across that in that exact kind of contest.
And it's a contest to free all prisoners.
Not one or two, not some. All of them.
Yes, all of them.
The most desperate ones first.
The most broken and lost, the most forgotten ones first.
Those ones go up first, not last.
