our purpose is actually so pleasing,
and true that all beings in all of time would agree.
Every tree, every insect.
Every worm, every maggot, every fly, every scorpion,
every whale, every pot of dolphins, every forest, every river.
And we try to have the best purpose that is for all beings, fulfilling.
And as we do that, we're actually petitioning all mothers,
to raise us forward, and to give us not only their blessing,
but their strength and their intelligence.
So we're emptying the throne of ourselves, right?
We're wiping ourselves out, just kind of gently erasing ourselves,
so that in the empty throne can sit the true sovereign,
which represents all beings.
This is, again, not religious.
Democracy is based on this.
Religious or not, okay?
We don't need to have a God picture for this.
Our own selves are like this.
We have this sphere of reflections of other beings in culture.
And if we relate with it, we say that we're a citizen, right?
If we don't, we say that we're a feral, or we're a criminal, or whatever.
The thing is, we all have this sphere of reflections of authority,
and reflections of heroes, and reflections of enemies,
and reflections of people who harmed us, and murderers, and policemen,
and whoever did us wrong, right?
Big systems, and governments, and, you know, authority figures.
It's authority. Oh, there we got it.
It's authority figures.
There it is.
See, you basically got two things.
You've got either a shepherd or a serpent.
That's the... symbolically, this is what you've got, right?
And the shepherd is the sovereign of the mothers.
This is the empty throne, okay?
And all the fathers come out of the mothers.
So, if you're the sovereign of the mothers,
if you're born of the virgin mother, right, who is ever-virginal,
like the earth is, by the way, since she never gets penetrated,
but she just keeps making babies, and space is the same way.
Is she really penetrated? Did she lose her virginity?
No, I don't think so. She's filled with stars. She's still filling with stars.
Is there a problem with her virginity? Did she lose her cherry?
No, actually, she's ever-virginal, okay?
So it's not only us kind of primates have that specific thing.
The virgin mother is pure, undifferentiated potential,
and this is made merriant, honestly.
She is space-time. She is gaps of every kind.
And if we separate something in that gap, there she is.
Take a pizza, if you don't believe me, right?
Just let's do some math here really quick.
You take a pizza, and you want two pieces, because you've got two people,
so you cut it in half, right?
Well, you had one circle, now you've got two pieces, one gap.
No problem. We all understand that.
Let's say you've got four people.
So the first one, let's say you cut vertically,
and so you've got one gap, two slices.
Now you cut horizontally.
Well, now you've got four pieces, but one gap.
And isn't it funny that now there's inroads into the core of the pizza,
a pointed infinity, a source point?
And now you begin to divide from there to make equal portions
or whatever algorithm you wish to use, or even non-algorithm.
You just rip the pizza apart and eat it, or you just leave it there,
or you photograph it, and you put it on Facebook, whatever you do.
It's up to you.
Just understand that the gap stays unified no matter what you do,
and you can't really separate the gaps.
The only way you can do that is sort of falsely by making up something
that pretends they're separate.
So we all like to say, like, we're all secretly one.
No, actually, we're all secretly separate.
We're all kind of, we make up separations because the Earth is one thing
and one thing and one thing.
If there's a fish on one side of the ocean and a fish on the other side of the ocean,
they're touching, because it's one ocean, right?
So it's touching actually their whole body, all the surfaces of it.
They're communicating through that environmental space.
And there are interactions, even if they're on the other sides of the planet,
they're structuring that space.
And those structures will be communicated all around.
First in very small ways, but eventually in huge ways.
Let's go back to Robin Hood.
The snake and the shepherd.
So the false king is actually just an ego that stands over.
By the way, this hand is not bad and usually it's this hand that's troubled
and my honor is reversed, so this is my right hand.
This is my left hand.
We've got these two kingdoms, by the way,
and the right hemisphere doesn't really believe, excuse me,
like I'm getting this backwards, this always happens to me,
the left hemisphere which has the right side of the body
doesn't really believe in the left side of the body.
So it kind of wants to attack it and it kind of wants to,
it kind of wants to lord over it and say like,
you're not real, you don't do stuff.
I'm the divider, I make divisions in things.
I'm the hard one, yeah.
And it's not really true.
See, this one is supposed to be wielded by this one, actually,
not physically, but in the sense of purpose, which is the mother's wielding.
The father's wielding the sort of Smith or Forge guy.
The guy who wants to make technology, which, again, is okay,
as long as we have some intelligence guiding it,
which we don't, really, at all.
And I can be really, really clear in this argument that we don't,
regardless of what kind of data is brought to bear,
bring anyone to the table, they won't have a chance against me.
Because we're burning down the living system,
all of the living relationships they're anciently conserved,
they're irreplaceable machines don't help us instead of those.
They're just like, if I burned you down and had a doll,
it doesn't work, your argument isn't going to fly.
So technology's okay, we need language, but we have problems with language.
We need, you know, mathematics, but we're confused about parts of mathematics
and how it relates to things, physics in particular.
And we need all of the things that we have,
but we are using them in ways that are crazily misguided
because we're sort of like children without any parents.
The parents are actually us.
We just have to do something more like this than like this.
Robin Hood's all about that.
In Robin Hood, a guy wearing a hood who actually represents, believe it or not,
the tiny penis under the hood of the woman,
which is sort of the source of the real big penis.
So she's a point inside a circle, right?
A circle with a point in the middle.
That's the little penis inside the woman's hood.
And it's pure intelligence.
It knows. It's going to judge.
It's the first point of co-emp...
You're going to petition her.
Come on.
Am I making this up?
Man.
Women.
You're going to petition her.
And that's the first petition, right?
Actually the first petition is nature and chance and things like that.
The first petition is like conversation.
Co-enversation.
We're not going to get into that.
But you're going to petition the little guardian, okay?
The little happy guardian or angry guardian at the gate.
And if the guardian doesn't let you through,
your error is miss all, miss all targets.
But if the guardian, excuse me, if the guardian of the garden lets you through,
well, trouble ensues.
You've got an archery contest on your hands.
And there's a variety of forces at play.
Just as we have in ramen hood, right?
There's the false sheriff.
There's the snakes in the world, right?
And we ourselves become them.
It's not like there's a conspiracy or there has to be a demon.
No.
So Richard, the lion heart, it is off at war.
That is actually the sun, which is her o of the big one, right?
That's the biggest her o around here.
That's everyone's o.
Man, when that thing's in the sky, it's it.
And earth shines and glows with his adoration, but they never touch.
She's virginal.
All of her children are on her surface and her dress is made of their expressions into the atmosphere.
And once before she lost her shoes in Cinderella because her sisters were Mars and Jupiter and Saturn.
And a ball was coming and she lost her.
Her shoes.
What are a woman's shoes?
They're her ice caps, a crystal slipper that fits.
These stories are older than humans.
They're older than life.
Okay.
These stories go back to when there were bacteria on earth, which happens to be 90% of what we're made of science, not fairy tales.
And these things we call fairy tales contain knowledge that no one's ever found because they are wave seeds from crossing that happen between worlds.
What that means is not up to me or you to decide.
It's just up to us to not deny it until we can understand a lot more about why.
I haven't decided anything.
I only know what I can see in the language and in nature and link and demonstrate to you easily in ways a child will understand.
So what is the bow that Robin draws?
Who does he draw it for?
The difference between a snake and a shepherd is purpose.
Okay.
A snake's purpose is to sort of tyrannize.
Yeah.
Now I don't mean a snake in nature.
Snakes in nature are good and snakes are the crossing agent.
But if they're not, if you sing right to them, they become angels.
Bing.
Right.
Now they're the most trustworthy horse you could possibly or stalling you could possibly find.
But in the presence of a snake that organizes other snakes, they're just like they're like rapists and murderers and gangs.
And you know, a lot of our cultures are really mostly like that.
And there's a sign which is like this.
That means snake and snake and no mothers.
Notice that the penis of the man has two balls and the bull oxen of God has rings.
Torks.
They call them the rings.
These are the memories of the mothers and the grandmothers.
And a test actually means a co-emptition of the mothers and the grandmothers, all of them back to the beginning of time.
Not just on earth.
