Hi. Welcome. My name is Darren Stevenson. You're probably watching my YouTube channel.
Thank you for stopping by. If you like what you see, please feel free to share the work here.
I like to think of these explorations as something we're doing together.
I've got a candle lit over here because this is a vigil. Tonight I'm remembering heroes.
The real ones, not the representations. The real ones often don't look much like the representations.
And actually the whole topic can be really confusing for us because we live in cultures that hide things in representations.
And some of this is probably just as it should be. It's not all bad. We can't get rid of it. It's not a conspiracy.
It's just part of the way that intelligence becomes aware of itself in a highly structured fashion.
It uses sort of reflections to proceed along these dreamlike explorations and often wants to demand that it knows or there's a law or there's a quip or a quote or a little piece of folk wisdom.
Well, there used to be some folk wisdom before we started just sending noise across the channel.
And these days we're kind of believing the stories more deeply than ourselves because there's not that much left of ourselves.
Under the representations there's not much room for ourselves.
Whatever we brought to human birth is hidden for most of us, for most of our lives.
In many ways it's hidden by what we were trained to expect and hope for.
I'm going to talk and explore. I'm actually very nervous. I'm frightened. I'm not easily scared of enemies, but I'm very frightened of knowledge because the only thing I found that's really worth fearing
is the unspeakable depth of the beauty of the sources of all that we call knowledge and the cosmos.
And personally I like to see the human lenses, science and religion, the New Age, literature, gurus, spirituality quote unquote, language, art, politics and government, cultures, all of the subcultures, all of the trees of all of this.
I like to see all of that as a kind of a child's playroom where children are attempting to assemble some kind of a toy to help them understand.
But they don't really want to understand. They actually really like the toy.
So we have a lot of stories from our ancestors and we tell each other these stories as if we think we understand them.
And in fact, I love the way that the internet works because a person like me can make great use of it.
When I read a sentence, I get 30 ideas. A lot of them are disposable.
But the fact that I've got such a kind of a sphere to reflect off of back on the central idea and almost any sentence, any sentence you could name, Jane runs fast is enough for me.
And with that, I can learn for an hour. So if you give me a sophisticated, any kind of sophisticated information chunk, I'm like someone who's almost from another world in that I've never seen information before.
And I just, I just, I don't seem to interact with things the way ordinary people do.
I'm fascinated by learning and intelligence and how it plays with itself in beings, across gaps and on in spaces in time and form, matter, energy, space, in waves, in waves it seems, and pulses.
Like the heartbeat, like the drum, the rattle.
There's another way, an arrow pierces you. Or maybe it flies straight like a bullet.
There's kind of a bullet way of knowing. And then there's sort of a drum way of knowing which makes a pulse.
Like radar. Or sonar maybe.
Sends out a pulse and then that comes back.
You know, blind people can learn to navigate by understanding the directionality of sound in ways that sighted people don't.
Now if blind people learn culture from sighted people, they may learn the sonic blindness of ordinary sighted people.
But if sighted people learn culture from blind people, what they suppose might happen?
I used to have a joke that went something like, the one eyed man in the land of the blind is still at the starting gate while they're asleep at the finish line.
And the reason is that they can magnify their efforts over one another in a wave that promotes an asset so rapidly to the front that the tortoise beats the hare.
As the hare begins its first step, the tortoise crosses the finish line.
And this is understood in certain esoteric circles which might involve swordsmanship for example, or martial arts.
They could also involve gun fighting or even knife fighting. Perhaps fencing.
And yet they are true of such delicate things as communication, love making, kissing, dancing, wonder, dreaming.
Some of the things I'm going to talk about, I'm going to come back to that in just a moment, some of the things I'm going to talk about are a little bit dream inducing.
I'm going to allow that to happen. And that's part of why I'm nervous because I'm not going to be able to perform as deptly as I'd like.
But the topic is crucial enough in these two ways.
The pulse knowing, like you bang a drum, that's not just knowing.
And that kind of knowing is instructing the whole terrain. When you're making that drum beat, that pulse is just instructing the whole space and unifying it.
Because everything in that space is uniquely participating in that rhythm and in all of their relationships at the same time.
This is part of why people do dance alone and it's fun. But people like to come to death together to dance.
And together is part of why we're here. Interestingly enough, this word together has a unique structure that can be read as to get her why.
What are we going to get her? Well, actually, we're going to get her very happy. Just like a little child. I think you'll see what I'm talking about.
We're going to get her, oh, we're going to get hero.
We have these stories and we think we know what they're about. And I love the internet because you can make a lot of the information there. I can.
But it's easy to think that the expertise is most or all of what there is or should be.
And it's easy to stop there and not really understand what's underneath the elaborately organized and cataloged crust that the internet comprises because there's something alive underneath there, like under our roads.
That living stuff is knowledge. And when we share it this way, like we're going to do here in a very natural way, it's contagious.
In fact, it's far more contagious than damage, fear, isolation, terror, loneliness, boredom, vulnerability.
It's far more contagious than all the things that tear us apart.
Knowledge is exquisite. And it's in everything that we're touching, which is part of why I get so much joy out of even such a simple sentence.
Or any little piece of media because I just feel like there's too much to discover in there.
If I had just that one thing for the whole day, I could learn a thousand things.
And each day in my life, I learned enough that I'm frightened that I might not survive it, on most days, especially lately.
And that's part of why I'm making this. I'm having a visionary experience of knowledge and learning.
And so I'm making this partly for myself because this helps me to more deeply understand my own experience and grow inside it and learn,
but also for other people who might in some way benefit from it.
And since I have no agenda, I'm not trying to say I know anything or not selling any idea concept.
I would like everyone to think about how we see and how we experience meaning together.
And also a lot about what identity is, what words mean, what language is, lots of things.
I want us to think about lots of things, but I don't have, I don't want to try to sell you anything.
No kind of real religion or science or folk knowledge or anything like that.
I'm just really interested in understanding how we got to be doing all of the things that we do as human beings.
And in the context that we're in, what we do as human beings is really incredibly in conflict with biology on Earth.
And I think also the basis of what lifted us to this incredibly sophisticated and technical intelligence that we now enjoy.
Heroism is hugely involved in that because it was involved in the conception of every one of us.
One sperm out of maybe between 40 million and who knows 1.5 billion sperm.
I am the one that they sent to speak for them.
It wasn't a competition. Well, it was a competition and that's exactly what we're going to talk about.
But you might notice that I wear a hood. Here it is.
And in one of our stories there's an archer who wears a hood and he's very good with his bow.
And he shoots an arrow. He's kind of a writer in a way.
Describe in a sense. But he writes waves out of cages for whole generations of beings in waves.
And when we see heroes like this were inspired and we realize, oh, there's something pretty amazing about being human
or at least about the possibility of being free together with and for each other to the possibility of excellence.
And in this word there's a beautiful secret, ex-cell lens.
We lance the cell and prisoners are freed.
But of course we don't lies the cell. We don't destroy the earth. That's the opposite.
Now when we lance the cell, it splits and now they're free to divide and make little networks and constellations
and things like all the little cells do. They're free. They're out of the cell. They're ex-cell lens.
And we have these stories that remember this stuff to us.
And one of them that I'd like to remind you of briefly before we start is Cinderella
because I know a princess who used to be named Dirt. I do.
And I'll tell you very briefly a story about her that I know this princess, she used to be named Dirt
and she had these three-step sisters. Glorious beings, they.
One had the most gorgeous red black dress ever imaginable.
And the other, well, hard to describe her garb.
Almost a rainbow with a ribbon. Such a ribbon.
And the third, the jewelry. Unbelievable, the jewelry.
And yet here was this scullery nape.
A woman born to slavery. She cleaned the chimney. Covered in ash.
Hopeless, a slave, really.
It's said that a man of great valor and nobility was coming.
There would be a ball that everyone would, in their fineries, arrange themselves before him.
As if to be selected somehow.
Or possibly just to be noticed.
To be seen. We all know how wonderful it is.
To be seen, especially as children, always seeking our mothers and fathers attention so vigorously.
It's not because we're greedy. It's actually because we want to be the hero.
We want to be the hero. We want to make mothers so happy that she actually just starts vibrating and squealing and giggling and wiggling.
We want her to have...
Yeah, we do. We want her to have one. I know.
I won't say the word. You don't have to be afraid. This is safer work so far.
But that's part of why...
I'm telling you this, but I'm wearing this hood.
See, there was this archer who also wore a hood.
And the reason that he wore this hood is amazing and beautiful.
Profound and hilarious. And it's all about competition.
And we were born from one, from a competition where...
From millions of sperm and a single egg.
One of them, hi, I'm him talking. For all of them.
One of them succeeded and was promoted.
Promoted to the...
To the Royal Archery Contest where he would be tested. Tested?
Didn't he just come from testes?
Now it's over. Now it's not safer work. I think we're done.
I'm just going to have to talk like a regular guy now. No, I won't.
Anyway, one of them was promoted. You know, if you got there, if you got to the scene of the crime scene...
And they were riding horses, by the way. These horses were snakes.
The egg has a detachable tail, which is, by the way, the mitochondrial DNA of all the mothers.
And when it gets to the egg, all the mothers of that father in that tail...
It's the egg, the little swimming tail that helps the spermatozoa pierce the ovum.
With a special enzyme, which causes the ovum to suddenly change.
And lock all others out.
When that event happens, there are some witnesses in the vicinity.
And the snake is kind of left half-wiggling on the outside.
Because it can't penetrate all the way into the egg and it will be broken off and perished.
Our valiant steed that we rode to victory and birth.
We lost our angel at the crossing. So it seemed to us.
Now, in a sense, Robin Hood is really about this story.
And he's an archer in sure wood.
This is wood we can trust.
This is fluid rigidity.
This is not a domineering tyrant.
This is a real hero worthy gentleman.
But let's get back to that conception event for a moment.
This language English.
It's like the delicate fruit of children who lost the alphabet of angels.
And then they tried desperately to recompose it and they got a lot of it right.
There's a lot of it in there. But what I mean by angels is not religious, necessarily.
Unless you're religious about the existence of intelligence, which you clearly exhibit some form of it.
An angel really is kind of whatever we agree that it will be for the sake of argument.
For now, I'm going to just keep it a question mark.
But it's basically something that helps us cross a gap, like that little snake.
That strange mitochondrial wiggler.
It's a powerful thing, cilia.
I think they were spirochetes.
And they used to be an invasive organism and we had still cells and spirochetes like things.
And one day, these two got together, according to Lynn Margolis, a historian, Sagan's wife.
And then we had a problem because then these little wigglers could drive the other cells to food and resources
and they could get them across gaps.
Life has humble beginnings, but even in our stories, these beginnings are inescapable.
They were the first moves of life on Earth. How could they not be now found in our stories?
Now, we have this idea about competition. It's very dangerous.
It actually reforges our intelligence and the way that we relate with one another and the planet in a lethal way.
A way that is completely, completely mistaken.
It's usually not a good idea to say something like that.
It's usually good to have kind of a middle ground, right?
And say, well, there's good things and bad things.
And it's true, there are.
When we're lethally mistaken, as long as we have some rebound time and we do rebound, we can often rebound wildly.
But this time, we're so lethally mistaken that we've torn down what might rebound.
And it's not a good scene, so we need to understand as quickly as possible.
And as universally as possible, without any specific stories or any specific authors or any specific, you know, subcultures.
We just need to understand as human beings living alive with minds in nature on Earth.
We all pretty much qualify there.
It doesn't really matter what else you think.
Without an Earth, there won't be anything to be.
So we need that.
And without being human, a lot of what we're doing isn't very human.
Without that, it's not everything we've done in history will be wasted and destroyed, including the history of all life on Earth.
And we'll burn down what we've got here, make a lot more machines and representations, empty noise that we can't relate with.
Their minds destroy our minds.
So it's kind of two different paradigms.
One of them is life and intelligence positive.
And one of them is life and intelligence replacing.
They do work together.
We need a little bit of both, right?
Because knowledge itself is structured.
But what happened when we were conceived was not competition.
And machines are competition, let's be really, are like the false kind of competitions.
Be really clear about this.
Machines are a lethal form of competition.
They'll rip everything that's left around here.
If we support and allow that to dominate us, mechanical ideas, written laws, things like this, things that are formalized and structured in such a way that they just crush us down while they rise up over us and then become like angry gods, which is pretty much what's going on now.
We won't last another year or two.
I don't mean to be blunt, but again, there's 7 billion of us going around the planet.
So that's 7 billion life years in one year.
We've got to make really intelligent moves now and we've got to learn how.
I don't want to scare you about it, but let's be really blunt.
We need to learn how yesterday.
So what is competition?
Well, what happens with sperm is a lot like what happens with the blind people when there's a one-eyed man among them and they're going to run a race.
It's almost as if the night before the race, the guy who's going to run for the blind people, he sleeps at the starting line.
