That's how the mothers feel in general.
They like the little one.
The one that doesn't have the same chance.
And Robin does too.
So these stories, Cinderella, Robin Hood,
they're the stories of our world.
They're the stories of intelligence.
The stories of our own conception.
Of co-empetition.
And co-empetition isn't a bunch of snakes fighting over who gets to rule.
Who gets to dominate with a mean, you know,
biting snake penis that just crushes you and crushes life
and rises higher and crushes life and rises higher.
It's just rigidly egoic.
Just telling you that you're just disposable,
sex objects, whatever.
Makes you wear a tie, makes you wear makeup
so that you can signal that you're willing to be sexually surveilled
by strangers in public.
Even in your home.
No.
No.
No. Robin Hood is every child.
And he wants to make his mother and father both have those.
Because herro is the father's, though. I mean, come on.
How does the father have a no? He dreams about her having a no.
So, herro is his-o.
I mean, come on. It's all one big-o with a dot in the middle.
Oh, by the way, you know, the snake is sort of the rod,
but if you're holding the rod, then you control it.
If the rod's biting you, then you don't control it.
It's just smacking you in the head.
That's like a police baton. Bang, bang, bang, right?
But if you spin a rod, you have a ring.
And then you have the circle and the king.
And the one who holds the ring and rod is the proper sovereign,
is a shepherd who can lead and build these pods
with profound intimacy and intelligence.
Again, no religion. It's human action, right?
A shepherd. Sort of like the coach, but also the team leader
and the one who's the potential in the team.
It's like this hand. They're all different.
They each have a different function.
So, we make these little pods like dolphins or whales, cell groups.
And we don't really make them as individuals.
It's actually that we become individuals in them finally,
so that when we're not in them, we don't even feel like we're really human exactly.
And we try to be this. It doesn't work.
That's not co-empetition.
That's like the opposite. That's like co-me inflation or something.
I don't even know. I'm going to have to think about what to call it,
but I think you understand.
So, when Robin pulls the bow, he's pulling the bow of the entire sky.
It's the sky bow.
It's all of the stars in all time, in the mother space and time,
all of them for all beings, for the purposes of all beings.
He's fallen down on the ground and basically said,
I am your bow. Use my arm. Fly, you know, far.
Send me far in your name.
So, he's emptied the throne entirely. There's no Robin left.
He's the avatar of the mothers. He's the co-em petitioner.
He wins before the contest even starts, so he has no fear.
What he fears is the terror of beauty.
A beauty so unthinkable that he cannot ever feel truly worthy of it.
And that, myself, is what I fear in talking of such matters with strangers.
And ordinarily, these things are not really told in public.
They're kept very private because they're matters of power.
And yet now is such a dire time that we need to share knowledge in new ways
and explore and learn together in ways that don't belong to any knowledge system.
They don't belong to any author. They belong to all of us.
And they're just new ways of seeing.
They're just things to explore and examine with new lenses,
new ways of thinking about language, relationship, the old stories.
I will tell you this.
When Earth loses her slippers, like in Cinderella, a ball will come.
And it will not be friendly. It could be very dangerous.
I'd be concerned about that.
Because the Earth is an egg and she attracts suitors.
And one of the ways she does that is sort of by dancing.
We all understand that if the woman's kind of, you know, wiggling, right?
And the man gets like, wow, hey, she's, that girl moves.
It's kind of the same with an egg. She vibrates.
She kind of, she sort of calls the competitors to her to win.
And it starts at the hood, right? Back at the little guardian.
The guardian of the garden where this is, we're eating, it's going to take place
and they're going to leave the garden together
and the snake's going to be there talking to them and everything.
It's going to be just like in the old times in conception land, believe me.
It's going to be, that's where the garden is.
The angel with the spinning sword that guards the garden.
Oh, there's so much I want to share with you, but we're out of time more soon.
Thank you for, if you've stayed with me all this time, I'm very surprised.
I hope you've enjoyed it.
We've had a vigil, a vigil for the ancient archers.
There's so much more to say, but just understand the difference between
the sort of vipers, which are good when the right song unifies them.
And Robin Hood and the merry folk of sure would forest by my for now.
Thanks. We'll learn together soon.
