And the guy who's going to race against them, the one-eyed man, he sleeps in his bed.
Now there's another secret here, which I'm going to hold off to the end because it's going to seem kind of phony.
I'm just going to really be like, oh, of course, that's just silly, but it's not.
Listen to what I'm saying.
The first blind man goes to sleep and when he does, he starts to dream.
And the moment he starts to dream, another one lays down next to him and this goes on.
And a woman and a man and a child and a woman and a man and a child.
And they're dreaming, they're laying down in a row.
Next day, seeing the guy gets up, it's time for the race at 9 o'clock.
He goes to the racetrack and the blind people are asleep all the way down the road.
All the way to the end of the finish line, there's a line of blind people right across it.
The seeing guy goes like, what are you guys doing?
We're dreaming.
I don't understand.
So it doesn't matter, let's race.
So right at the start, all the blind people wake up and stand up.
And just as the seeing guys stepping over the starting line, they won.
But they didn't move.
They didn't even race.
How did they win?
Robin Hood.
That's the answer.
Co-M petition.
See, it's in the word, co, meaning something we do together.
And in agreement, we have agreement about this.
In this case, the M can stand for different things, but fundamentally, it stands for mothers.
Which is the matronly other.
The M other.
There's a patronly other, a father, a pater.
There's a matronly other, a mater, a matter.
The father's like the son, he's that forceful lightning.
Structure.
Coming through the space, structures, intelligence.
And his shadow is technology and making things.
That's the shadow of that lightning.
It's kind of the dark side.
It's all right, but you have to really manage it or it'll just take you over and run you over and remake you in its image.
Which is kind of what's going on here.
So what happens with all these sperm?
So first of all, did you know that there's like a V in there?
By the way, this symbol's pretty interesting here because it's not just about victory.
This is about how we got born.
To get born, half of the crew had to die.
So if it was a billion, 500 million of them went the wrong way.
Approximately, you know, give or take, however many you want.
So let's say this was the wrong way.
In my case, the other 500 million took the rest of the champions to here.
They've probably seen like amazing war stories, like 300 and stuff.
These kids weren't like, sliding down a water slide, okay?
They're ensconced in fluid that is trying to protect them from assaults,
from the acidic environment inside the woman's organs.
And it's a battleground and they're not fighting each other.
They're fighting for each other.
They're fighting to get one champion to the place where there will be judgment.
The judgment of all mothers in all of time.
And that's what this whole event is about.
We're co-empetitioning.
We're petitioning all mothers, the circle.
You can just imagine like a sphere of mothers, not just the human mothers.
All of the animal mothers, all of the insect mothers, all of the fish mothers, everything.
It's as if we're petitioning all of the mothers.
We're co-empetitioning.
What does petition mean?
It means to become little.
It means to empty the throne.
And I'll show you that this is in ramenhood.
Am I making up a religion here?
Trust me.
So this is about archery and how to hit a bullseye, actually.
I'm going to show you exactly how this rolls with people with ancient intelligence
and how they use language and knowledge to encode in metaphor a wave seed
that would expand over time and explode into intelligence.
If you understand the keys, which are meant not for adults.
They're meant for little children.
Like us.
Like this.
Not like this.
He did me in there.
Not like that.
Not like this.
And then like this.
This thing here.
And so on.
Inspirals in a web when it radiates.
It's connected.
Like that.
A co-empetition where all the beings are petitioned
and they sort of do the blind man thing to get the best one to the front.
And that's the one who wins, not the one who started the race,
but the blind folk win the race and they didn't even move.
They simply activated the one of themselves that was already at the end.
Whereas the seeing man had to run away himself alone.
Like that.
Right?
They were like this.
Yeah.
He was like that.
Now which one of those is a god?
This guy.
Who's doing this.
Alright.
Or this.
The body.
The lord of hosts is a reference to all beings.
As a reflective mirror.
Yeah.
Of relation.
It's really simple.
It doesn't require religion or science or gurus or spirituality or anything.
You just understand from your own mind.
We reflected off our parents and authorities all around us.
If they were mean, we took that in and that became part of ourselves in some way.
Good or bad, depending or not really good or bad,
but what I mean is growth promoting or growth retarding
and then also open to growth or less open and compulsive or sort of voluntary.
We're sort of split and we move around.
We're not frozen.
We're not one thing.
People ever want to tell you like, oh you're this, then you just go on being that.
No, actually they're wrong.
No one knows what you are.
You're going to be changing actually a lot all the time, especially now.
If you start to see what's in just the common words we use and the old stories,
you're going to change a lot really fast.
And you're probably going to become one of the very folk of Sherwood Forest,
the place of the wood you can trust.
What is the wood you can trust?
Well, for one thing, it's a hard one.
You can think of it as a sword, but it's a hard one.
Well, it shoots arrows that are alive, little snakes.
And so, a hard one, and my mom, they had a wave.
They made waves.
They were very fiercely waves crashing into each other almost like the ocean and the rocks.
And it got so exciting that her O was born.
Hi there.
Christmas Day.
So, I was all the way.
St. Nick delivered me.
They told her I would die, by the way.
They kind of told her you should just abandon the kid.
Leave him.
Leave him be because he's going to die.
He's got water on the brain.
It didn't work out that way.
A more interesting thing, though, is how that sperm got to the front.
It was promoted from a co-emptition.
So, all those billions of beings, they promoted each other, sort of in waves, right?
Like in a wave action, all the way up that line.
And they got a really good competitor, maybe the best of them all.
But definitely the best they could get across that gap.
And they all made the sacrifice.
That one is speaking for all of those people.
As if a world like ours, as if a world like our own, took one mating pair of humans
and shot them across the gap in space-time to another world somewhere
where they could survive and become a part of that world,
whatever other life-forms might be there.
Like that, that crazy.
Because think about the distance between your father's birth in time and space
and your mother's birth in time and space
and all of the events and relationships that they had on the world, right?
Every little moment, all of them.
You think of all those constellations, yeah?
As they come together in conception, that distance.
Think of all that distance in time and relation and space.
A lot of different kinds of distances.
Because there's a lot of different kinds of relational spaces, right?
All the different relationships.
And then they come together, finally.
And millions, you know, of little snakes go swimming across an incredible gap.
Do you know what that distance is between egg-wise and sperm-wise?
Don't just go in your time, go in egg-time.
Because that egg, I don't know how fast it lives,
but let's say that a day is a year in egg-time, right?
So it's like billions, it's millions of years, right?
And incredible distances.
Like the distances between two habitable worlds in space, like light-years,
at the scale of the cell, in the temporal scale of the cell,
the distance between your parents' birth and your conception.
It's commensurate, I'll bet you.
It might even be larger than what we understand at our scale,
as the distance between two habitable worlds in space.
It might even be larger than that.
And they made it.
And you made it.
And you were unstoppable.
You were a Robin Hood.
Or made Marion, or both.
I mean, one, probably born as both, actually, I think.
You know, we're actually, we stay a little bit of both, right?
Even Robin has made Marion inside him,
and made Marion has Robin inside her.
So which one do you want to be?
You can decide either way, it's okay.
But let's get back to the story about competition in heroes,
because I want to get to why she has this O, and what this is all about.
There's mimics that mimic archers, or kings, or sovereigns.
And a sovereign is one that is promoted,
because it's promoted by co-am petition.
We petition all the mothers,
and our purpose is so noble and true,
