For those of us who have to obey the clock, for we who follow our smart phones through a living place for purposes of distraction or necessity.
Now in this moment I'm doing that, I'm making a video, but at least in this situation I am being creative.
And I'm trying to use, this is an old trope of mine, I want to use the momentum and the elements that have been co-opted against us.
I want to use that momentum and those elements against the forces that cause the collapse of our creativity and our intelligence and our humanity and our structure.
Our minds disoriented by unnecessarily cruel purposes and deceptive, deceptively enslaving aspects of our adult lives.
I remember the imaginative wonderland of childhood with great enchantment and joy and I also, like many of us anyway, we suffer the loss of that playful imaginary relationship with reality which adults will tell us isn't pragmatic enough and what they mean is it won't help you be a slave later.
One imagines the parents of birds who constantly peck at their wings because they themselves long ago had them pecked off by other parental birds and so believe their children should not fly.
And this is an analogy I often use, right, that our people and our intelligence, our creativity, our imagination is like a bizarre species of bird that has a myth that causes them to celebrate crawling and to cheer if anyone should manage to hop,
but essentially to try to kill those who will fly or to co-opt them so that they can be profitably taken advantage of without actually becoming contagious enough to get all the other birds flying again.
And there's something, this analogy is very conservative compared to what's going on with human consciousness and our intelligence and such like this.
The beautiful and astonishing dreaming that I experienced last night, which I'll not share here, it's a bit too personal.
It's so refreshing, it restores my felt sense of meaning and purpose and, oh my goodness, oh this Brugamencia again, a scent, it's just redolent.
This fragrance is just redolent in the atmosphere here. There's another one here.
This is the redwood, the sort of grove of redwoods in the botanical gardens.
There's a peculiar kind of regal stillness and silence here that I love.
It's fascinating that we need help, something, an insect just flew near my eye.
It's also fascinating how great eyelashes are, right? They will protect your eye from having something fly directly into it because they sense and react almost instantaneously.
Not quite as quickly as a praying man is a strike, which is unimaginably fast.
I think it actually strikes faster than your visual neurons can fire, if I remember correctly.
But yeah, fast, fast enough to protect your eye most of the time.
I've lost my train of thought for a moment there because I switched tracks.
I switched focuses.
Oh, it's funny that the dreaming mind sort of comes upon us when our nervous systems switch to something extremely old
and our bodies become largely but not completely paralyzed.
We still continue breathing, for example. Some of us experience limb movement and such, though.
And some of us actually sleepwalk, right?
The idea that a phenomenon has a simple, explicit nature that is implied by the way we use language is wrong.
It's just boldly wrong.
And it's unfortunate that we would ever use language in this way because it misleads us.
Into thinking about identity in ways that are catastrophically delusional.
Phenomenon that have the same name are often similar.
But that similarity is falsified.
The more we move toward the specific circumstances of a given organism or situation or perceiver,
and then things become very unique.
All dreams can be said to be dreams, but there are many, many different kinds of dreaming.
And many astonishingly unique modes and forms of dreaming.
The hypnagogic dreams on the way to sleep differ dramatically from the hypnopompic dreams on the way to awakening,
which also differ from the deep dreaming that happens somewhere in between them.
I'm hoping to see, here's a pipeline swallowtail caterpillar.
And here's another one.
And I think I see some yellow jackets.
Did they have a nest down there?
Hmm, I saw a couple of them floating down there.
Could be a nest right nearby here.
I was hoping to see a few pipeline swallowtail caterpillars,
and I'm curious if I will see a chrysalis over here.
Okay, so the other day, when I was here, I showed the caterpillar that was preparing to make this chrysalis.
And there it is.
And up here is the skin of a previous attempt at crystallization.
That skin often happens, is often found at the top of the chrysalis.
And here's another chrysalis underneath here.
And here is an evacuated chrysalis right there.
Perhaps dreaming is like the crystallization of consciousness.
Or falling asleep is like the crystallization of consciousness.
And dreaming is the butterfly that there from emerges.
Now most people who know me know I'm really fascinated by dreaming.
And people will think, well, what about lucid dreaming?
That's the partial intrusion of waking consciousness into what I might think is the manifold of the dreaming experience
without causing that manifold to collapse into waking.
And lucid dreaming is certainly fascinating and has many peculiar avenues that we can explore.
Many peculiar branches.
But I'm sort of more fascinated by something less commonly discussed.
Which is the opposite situation.
The gentle introduction of the dreaming mind into the manifold of waking consciousness without it just collapsing into a dream.
And this is one of the features, one of the possibilities that make psychedelic drugs so attractive.
But I prefer experiences that don't require that.
That don't require intoxication, that do not force us into a non-ordinary consciousness by the introduction of medicines or poisons.
Though many, many people sing the praises of these drugs.
I am not one of them.
And the reason I am not one of them is that I've had experiences that so dramatically
transformed my waking consciousness continuously without the introduction of intoxicants.
That those experiences of psychedelia that I've had seem relatively trivial and misleading in comparison.
So I don't want people to get to associate the wrong door with these experiences.
And that's a sub-topic.
To wander in the garden is to be relieved of the visual, structured fictions and thoughts of the mind.
Of the visual, structured fictions and toxicity of all those machines and buildings outside this little sanctuary.
And if I could, I'd spend most of my time, nearly all of it, with living places and living beings,
learning from them and loving them and having relationships with them.
But I live in a box in a city and I speak to you now through a rectangle in my hand.
A rectangle whose propagation has become more than a mere pandemic.
A rectangle who our lives and minds now serve in relatively tragic and cruel ways.
But I am lucky enough to have been born in a time when the oceans were yet unspoiled.
When Africa was still a thriving, anciently conserved array of ecological places and relationships where the Amazon was mostly undisturbed.
That era is gone. The oceans are dying. The Amazon is gone. The rainforests in New Zealand gone.
Africa has been obliterated. The few remaining megafauna are being poached to extinction while we speak.
Even though there are brave people, like a man named Damien, fighting to protect them and many others, not just him.
They won't succeed, unfortunately, and they know it.
But for the moment, I still live on a world where there are trees and plants and birds and insects and yellow jackets and hawks and owls,
raccoons, cougars, coyotes, magnolias.
And people interested in recovering some of the astonishing faculties and assets that underlie our capacity for human awareness, consciousness, relation and wonder.
I have high hopes, but I am a pessimist. I am a hopeful pessimist.
I expect apocalypse and work for utopian ideas.
Ideas are not human utopias, but perhaps what I might more reasonably call peritopias or protopias.
The possibility of our return from our long delusional waking nightmare to something resembling
that both takes advantage of the progress we've made intellectually and philosophically and scientifically and mathematically, though the science is very, very dangerous for us right now.
As powerful and as necessary as it is, our societies are not intelligent enough to relate survivably with the produce that science gives them.
And our war machines and our industries and our machines in general are evidence of this assertion.
Though I respect the scientific method, I'm terrified of what the humans will do with the results, what they do, and what they will do.
But I still am hopeful of the possibility of a future in which humans and nature return to an enlightened union.
And this is why I take the time to explore some of the fundamental aspects of our confusion and where we might find inspiration, insight, discovery and hope.
And one of those places is dreaming.
May we learn to dream again together and to follow those dreams into roles and relationships and societies that are worthy of the noblest conservations that comprise the human experience.
Thank you for joining me. May you be safe, well and filled with learning. Bye bye for now.
