I just don't have the same feeling as he does perhaps.
He was using the analogy which I think is a really good one.
One of his hosts was saying, can we fix this?
Can we just do the right? Is there something we can do that's right?
And he was like, look, imagine that your wife is 8.X months pregnant.
And suddenly, unexpectedly, because usually I think such things take us by surprise,
her water breaks.
The question isn't, can we just keep the baby in there a little longer?
Even though that may become a question, the doctors may decide to do that
from a broad array of confusions and intelligent sensitivities.
And he's using this analogy to describe humans on Earth.
What he is saying is,
the water has broken, the humans can't stay on Earth anymore.
The womb is turning, the humans are turning the womb toxic.
He's right about that. He's right.
Except he's presenting it more as a natural process where,
at least in some number of cases,
what we might call a predominant or penultimate animal on a living planet that becomes,
this is so ironic, there's so much history here he doesn't understand,
but it becomes representational.
And so, what that means is it's going to become more and more divorced from its own nature,
origin, and context.
An analogy of this, which I think Eric would appreciate, is the fish has become allergic to water.
It's making itself allergic to water.
It's not going to become a bird, it's going to remain a fish,
but it will become more and more allergic to the water because it's intentionally doing something,
900 things to the water and 1000 new ones per second,
that make it impossible not merely for there to be fish,
but for there to be organisms at all.
And Eric seems to think, well, one disagreement I would have with him is relatively simple.
Eric would like it if, like Elon.
And, you know, Eric disagrees with Elon in a way similar to what I do.
Eric doesn't think Mars is a very attractive second womb,
but Eric would like to give the humans the freedom to traverse the stars.
He's really angry the physics hasn't succeeded since relativity at least, if not from before that,
has done mostly nothing except gaze hypno-aiically into the depths of string theory
as demanded by Ed Whitten, the god of string theory,
which has failed to bring any horse to the race.
It's a horse race in this case.
String theory has neither horses nor runs races.
It just proposes the running of races for 50 years.
A time in which we should have made 10 important discoveries
that could get us either to post-scarcity consuming or to space.
And by space he doesn't mean nearby solar systems.
He means space, the big stuff.
We can go to other stars.
And I think that releasing anything resembling modern humanity on time-space
is one of the dumbest ideas I've ever heard.
There's lots of analogies people use to describe the humans,
often these analogies of children misbehaving.
Those analogies are okay, but the actual situation here is much weirder.
All the life phases of the humans are misbehaving together.
And goose-stepping with the clockwork of protocols that are fundamentally lethal.
Imagine a situation in which, in a human body,
there was an overwhelming, sudden, overwhelming,
a curve-rise.
A sudden, overwhelming curve-rise in a signal that causes cells to die.
There's probably 10 different ways for them to pass away.
So you can imagine first a signal within a single body that does this.
Essentially what's going to happen is that person will explode.
Inflammation everywhere and then death.
The humans are generating a death signal and the one thing you really don't want to happen
is for that to get out into time-space at all, ever.
As I've mentioned many times before, I think Ed Whitten probably did us a favor
because if we'd actually made physical advancements over the past 50 years,
it's entirely clear to me that they'd have been weaponized.
And in case you haven't read much science fiction
and you're not particularly imaginative about what humans would do
given something like free energy, let me be absolutely clear.
There is zero chance of a post-scarcity world for the humans as they exist at present
because for there to be a post-scarcity world,
the dominant financial, industrial, military,
prison-eering forces would have to be either put out to pasture or destroyed.
Or, you know, you don't really have to destroy them.
You just have to replace them.
They're not going to go quietly into the good night though, unfortunately.
Or into the long night, as it may be.
Yeah, unfortunately, those forces are so disoriented
that if you threaten them directly, they'll take the world hostage.
And anyone who can see anything at all knows this is true.
In a sense, it's ironic and there's a reason that we fight, quote-unquote fight,
that we interact with cancer in the human body by training a weapon on it
and that the weapon is radiation.
Because what you have is a cell that has become highly proliferative.
It just keeps making more of itself everywhere it can.
And so it's also the most expensive metabolic proposition you can table.
It will literally consume all of the metabolic energy of the body
in many cases.
So it's as if it's sort of the opposite of a power plant.
It's a distributed unpower plant.
And one of the things I'm going to suggest is that what is happening to the humans right now
and has been for a good six years or so, six years or six to nine years maybe,
is that there is a propagation of an unpower plant in a context we don't even have language for
or is very difficult for us to identify directly, one of the two.
Again, anything that attacks what you identify correctly with, right?
I mean this is in effect how you build a mind virus that can eat the entire population.
If they think there's something happening that they're unable to detect,
particularly if only special people can detect it,
and I recognize the signature in a number of the current socio-political gambits, right?
Where something's wrong, something's fundamentally wrong and unjust,
although those things are true, but only we know how to detect it.
And those who don't agree with our detections aren't humans.
You shouldn't listen to them.
There should be no discussions with them.
There are to be no discussions, except among those who agree that the thing we're detecting is the problem.
And that problem is, for example, patriarchy, colonization.
You can pick up any, you can pick up any monster you want,
and you can collect the monsters into a kind of monster bracelet that you just keep adding to.
You know, it's true, for example, that mechanical time is tyrannical.
Is wokeness, the answer is, is wokeness get to weaponize that fact for their benefit?
Thus claiming, you know, watches are patriarchal, time doesn't exist, mechanical time isn't true.
There are so many untrue things and so many injustices in common human thought and activity
that if you're going to fund a meme set with them, we are the ones who collect and display the injustices,
and no one else shall do so, is a great way, it's a great source of funding.
Also, anything that suggests mutual victimhood, right?
What does a victim have to do?
Nothing, they just broadcast.
By the way, that's sort of what cancer cells do.
They don't do anything except reproduce and broadcast, right?
They just broadcast like crazy.
This leads to a problem called, oh god, the sudden explosive spread of cancer to many organs or tissues.
I can't recall the name of it right now.
My mind is on seven other subjects.
Perhaps it will come to me.
But yes, so they basically just, it's a reproductive, it's a cellular.
Okay, so is a cancer cell still a cell?
Obviously, it belongs to the category.
Cancer cells are a kind of, you know, one thing a cell can become, as cancer is.
But it's sort of like the question, I'm going to twist the language up, just warning you ahead of time here.
When is an assassin not a comedian?
Is a serial killer not funny?
Categories can be very misleading, can't they?
And if we demonstrate how misleading they can be with statements like that, or statements like,
this is the most important statement you will ever hear in English.
You can see how humor is in a way the composition of a route in consciousness.
Again, the sudden unexpected either disappearance of the route, just goes poof, it's gone, or a radical transformation of it.
So that instead of, you know, we're going to a boat, and we walk along the path that should lead to a boat,
and we get to where the boat is, it's time space, right?
No, it's Saturn, right?
No, it's a certain breed of dog, or it's cat behavior, or anything you want to put there.
You can structure human consciousness so that it has basic expectations,
and then you can obliterate those artfully if you are a good comedian.
I think Eric is naive in that, and he'd probably be the first to admit this.
If I sat down and talked to him and asked him some clear questions, I suspect he'd admit this.
But he might say I don't care.
I think he's naive in two ways.
He thinks it's not just a good idea, but the natural next step in a progression to get humans propagating out there in time space.
And I don't think that's a very dumb idea.
Somehow you have to, the earth womb bubble is a context that's safe enough because it's enclosed for humans to experiment together at being human.
And you have to wait until some really good experiments, some really beautiful and noble and creative experiments,
and experiments that recall the virtues, particularly the virtue of memory.
You have to wait until such time as the group body of the humans are willing to compose and conduct and enact brilliantly beautiful experiments,
and those out-compete, they naturally out-compete what we might imagine to be their opposites, which are the malignant experiments,
and their propagation and domination activities.
And then I think Eric is naive in a second way, which is, it wouldn't surprise me to discover that Ed Whitton is a puppet,
tabled by intelligences, very profound intelligences, that came to him with a bargain.
We're going to give you two things at once, and you must accept them both, but you must enact the second one.
We'll give you the answers to the mysteries you're chasing, we'll feed them to you over time, and you'll be able to test them.
But you must release none of those to the humans.
What you do with the humans is entrance them with string theory, because it is reminiscent of what's actually going on,
but will ensure they don't get the keys to the stars.
So at least for another, it'll keep them busy for a couple hundred years, and then suddenly some clever young woman will be like,
aha, I see the problem in string theory, this is wrong, she sweeps most of it away, and there revealed some ring of keys to the sky.
But I think he's naive, I think he seems to not take seriously the idea that other intelligences are necessarily engaged in structuring space-time.
And if they weren't before, they sure as fuck are now.
And it's not that they're unfriendly to humans, they're unfriendly to anything that masquerades as human,
to anything that pretends to belong to the category the same way a cancer cell does.
But it enacts a series of protocols that are fundamentally lethal to all forms of life, right?
The humans are indiscriminately on the sidle at the group level.
Thankfully, most of the individuals, though that it does occasionally get down into the individuals and you'll see someone, often a male,
go on some rampage, and we're still some group of males, right?
Get them really amped up about some real or feigned injustice and then give them guns and direct them at any population,
watch them mayhem ensue.
The broken monkeys are ever more broken as our development proceeds, not ever less,
as we might hope, imagine and conceive of attempting to achieve together.
So I think he's naive in that there are other intelligences involved,
and they would not want the problem that infests our species at the group level to emerge into time space,
and the fundamental, one of the most fundamental dangers there is that humans will just build machines that build machines.
We've seen plenty of science fiction about that.
But I think you'd have a hard time imagining how quickly you could go from trees and birds and flowers and insects still exist to they don't anymore.
Because I imagine you could get there in, just depends on how recursively self-amplifying what you do is,
you can get there in an hour, you could probably get there in an hour with an effective enough prosthesis.
And that doesn't mean, oh there's no more life forms, that means that the entire history, the line of all of the living beings that ever lived here ends there, poof, extinguished.
And there are people who will say, well humans were a bad experiment to begin with.
William S. Burroughs might, but I doubt it. I think he actually cares about the humans.
And he's certainly aware there are other intelligences in time space.
So what I'm suggesting is, if physics suddenly delivered vehicles capable of interstellar travel, perhaps instantaneous interstellar travel,
we would very quickly find ourselves faced with, not enemies, but authorities, that would just raise one finger toward our entire species and say nope.
Stop doing stupid, deadly, lethal things and pretending those things are glorious.
There's nothing glorious about laying waste to the entire living history of your world and the possibility of human minds, their origin, their nature, their intrinsic purpose of endowments.
Stop putting an end to that. Stop trading that for trinkets and snack food.
Become a coherent species.
Doing any other thing is going to cost you everything.
You no longer have the, you have wound the clock string of nature so tightly on your planet that there's no longer any play in it.
And the clocks that that tension usually funds, you've taken them apart at their basis.
So that thing is just building stress.
And when it snaps, the repercussions will certainly, you know, be devastating to maybe everything.
I mean, there's other naivetés. The humans think they're the only game in town. They're nothing like the only game in town.
They're one of the weirdest games in town.
Anyone who just steps outside human culture long enough to look back at us from outside will see
