It's not a commercial product. I mean, actually, it turns out it is a commercial product.
What I mean, though, is that if wrongdoing becomes an accounting system, we're fucked.
Because it means that basic relational integrity has collapsed and we're no longer cognizant.
We can't recognize that problem. It's the same thing I was mentioning earlier where the matter at hand attacks what you would use to detect it with first.
And in case it's not obvious, there are similar features in nature, but do this.
One of the great examples which tends to produce mad organ dysfunction as well as oncogenesis, right?
Cancer making. Oh, the word I was looking for earlier.
Metastasized. That's when a localized cancer spreads suddenly and often explosively throughout related organs and or tissues.
Quite distant, metabolically, from the site at which it originates.
Think of the distance between, for example, well, any part of your body, let's say, your throat and your spleen.
And if you're thinking of the distance at the scale of human measuring, it's very close by.
But if you're thinking of the distance at the scale of cells, you're probably talking about a distance.
So are you. You're probably talking about a distance.
Oh, so funny. They were looking at a hair and hunting gopher's and saying it's a beautiful sight.
Yeah, for a cell, that's a huge distance. That's like light years away.
That's like there being a problem on earth and suddenly finding that the problem has.
And by the way, we should carefully think about such things this way.
It's like having a problem in a specific housing block in Cincinnati and then having it show up on a planet orbiting Rigel.
And the humans think, oh, there's no reason, there's no reason to believe that anything can connect earth and Rigel wrong.
They both come from the same mother. They might as well be twins.
They originate from the same context.
And notice when I say wrong, it's like I'm banging a gong.
Wrong, just we should resonate.
Nope, you got that one. You missed that question on the test humans.
Metastasization. Okay, so let's ask ourselves a really weird question, which is an important one.
What is the opposite of social and relational metastasization of memorial metastasization, stuff that attacks our memory?
If humans are having a disease that attacks memory, they should back the fuck up and pause as a species.
And this is one, okay, so I'm going to circle back. I know I'm bird walking a bit.
Our guy who's misbehaving, one of the strategies you can employ, if this starts to happen a lot in your society,
is you just direct the killing, right?
So you start wars or you participate in them.
Or, you know, you redirect the loss of human dignity, meaning, identity, role.
You redirect that loss toward a scapegoat.
And that works. And humans leaders have done this again and again throughout history.
It is well studied. It is well understood.
This is a thing that we often do as a species.
And primarily, it's hard to easily say what the role of the women in general is.
But this is something that happens to the men.
And the women are at least peripherally compromised or captured by this.
If not directly, you know, today, in our time, I imagine that conscription has become bisexual,
in the sense that it needn't make determinations about gender.
It can conscript anyone today.
A transformation that I consider tragic and perhaps quite devastating.
So one thing you can do is you can sort of bleed off.
You should study the problem and change.
We should use criminal behavior to understand its origins and transform our societies to reflect those new understandings
and continue that process and realize that whatever enlightenment might mean, it means something like this.
And some very conservative people will argue you're rewarding bad people for bad deeds.
And I will argue the context you're supporting necessitates bad deeds.
This may sound extremely liberal, but for example,
if our toy box nation is spending $10 trillion every 10 years on the possibility of war and devastating human conflict
and spending the rest of its money mostly just ripping the environment to shreds and stacking up paper and banks as a result,
we're not having a society yet.
If the academics are teaching fictions to our children and each other and supporting them,
we're not having education yet.
And by the way, education is the one thing that you can go after
that will definitely affect your capacity to detect that something is going after it.
It's actually the breadth and depth of one's not just representational education, though that matters too.
It's the depth and breadth of the diverse bases of one's education
that produces people who are not easily either A, deceived, or B, conscripted, or C, extorted into participation in atrocity.
And neither can we just say, like, well, it's all atrocity these days.
It's a big Disneyland of atrocity. True.
But that doesn't mean we can defect.
We still have an obligation to discover what it means to be human
and to redirect our societies towards something meaningful, true, beautiful, noble, trustworthy, with integrity, honesty, sincerity.
And the capacity to detect counterfeits of virtue.
I don't... I'm not...
I guess I'm concerned with the kind of insight that detects injustice.
But I might be more concerned at the moment, at this moment in history,
with the kind of insight that detects the counterfeiting of virtue.
And again, in the signal environment, if we were...
If we'd been trained in signal intelligence
and we were observing the signals being sent in our cultures right now,
the dominating signal forms and species and motivations and so forth.
We would be more than worried.
We would realize, oh shit.
We're not merely being invaded.
And this is true of all nations.
We're not merely suffering in an obscure array of simultaneous invasions.
The fundamental basis of our humanity, of our cognition, of our relationships, of our language, of our politics, of our infrastructure,
and particularly the military, industrial, prison, mimetic context.
That shit's been captured and is being weaponized against us as a people, the whole people.
I mean, it's a little bit weirder because it's like that scene in Blade Runner where Harrison Ford is about to be
forcefully conscripted one more time to go hunt replicants, which it has been deduced,
are not willing to go to their time-synced death chamber on time,
and if they're going to be forced to, intend to take some of the other people with them to send a message.
Bad message, bad way of sending it, but I get it.
So he's facing his boss.
I can't remember that actor's name at the moment.
Maybe it'll come to me.
And the boss outlines the proposal and Ford says, no, I'm fucking retired.
I don't want to kill anyone anymore.
And the boss says, you know the game, either with us or your little people.
I have such a deep reverence and respect for older humans now that I've tasted of their sorrows in my own life.
My God, the staggering isolation and loneliness burden of most elders,
along with a problem that we've skirted in this, I've skirted in this dissertation,
the problem of what happens if you don't have to go to work?
What happens to humans if they're, what actually happens if their needs are taken care of?
Hello.
There's an intrinsic need in us to be engaged in meaningful physical, psychological, relational, societal endeavors.
And that can be captured and weaponized and that's, you know, history is, modern history anyway is replete with examples of this.
But there is something fundamental in that we need,
well, we can defect from relational starvation and educational asphyxiation or bombardment both, right?
We can defect from either of those into work.
But optimally, we need to be doing, there is an intrinsic need to meaningfully employ our human bodies, minds, spirits.
And we're getting a lot of, I'll retract that, we're in a situation where the context has transformed to produce endless forms of make work
that are anything but rewarding, yet do serve the purpose.
It's like the junk food of work, right? It's junk work.
And throughout history, we've heard again and again the echo, the resounding echo of a promise.
We will release you from work to become enlightened.
Okay, could happen.
We will release you from work or in prison hearing so that you can establish on enlightened society.
But the modes of that have to be established before...
It's like you need to have that stuff spun up before you stop giving humans work and in the interim when it's not yet spun up
and the human desire or possibility of meaningful work is evaporating worldwide.
You might want to pay attention to the origin of that signal because it might mean, and I think it does mean, at least in part and possibly in large part,
that the role humans play in the network of minds and in the network of life on Earth has gotten rid of the necessities that gave birth to humans.
Or it's gotten rid of its reach the boundary conditions under which you want to get rid of that process.
There are all kinds of processes where the earthquake in Fukushima is a good example.
You have a nuclear reactor built on a fault.
The unthinkable happens tidal wave from earthquake.
Earthquake itself may have damaged the reactor, I can't remember, but the tidal wave was like the death knell.
So now you have a process that is spinning out of control and can kill everything around it for large.
And you can have the same problem on a planet, right?
You can have a planet where a process gets started that can spread to the other planets, it can metastasize to them.
And if there's a real-time relationship between planets in space-time, a possibility I would like to strongly emphasize as very likely,
then what happens on our planet costs lives on other planets, right?
There's a degree to which the planets can act as a buffer against developmental damage to organismal membranes in time-space.
They can share that burden the same way three humans can lift 400 pounds without much trouble.
But if one of those humans keeps stacking 100-pound weights and isn't lifting anymore, they're contributing burden,
there's going to be a reciprocal transformation of the relationship and it will not be fun.
It won't be pretty.
You know, it isn't nature that's red in tooth and claw, though the problem faced by embodied organisms that have to feed themselves is real.
But compared to nature, the humans are blood-drenched.
I mean, just like half zombie, half vampire, monster.
And of course, the individual humans aren't like that, but the species at the group level, they are completely disoriented,
they are omnicidal, arbitrary in judgment, kill this one, save that one, not intelligent, not survivable.
So one of the signals we might be seeing here, when I talk about what took place in 2018 for me and many people that I know,
is we might be seeing a senescence signal.
If we are one of the cellular cultures of the animal that is Earth or the meta-animal, right,
because she produces animals naturally as a result of having stabilized her environment and so forth,
then, you know, something needs to interfere to either reduce our population dramatically,
and perhaps it's not, I would argue that it's not our population that's the actual problem.
The actual problem is object proliferation, dead structure that keeps reproducing instead of living structure.
Okay, any agenda like that, any system like that, that's got a very fucking limited lifetime.
It might have worked in the 1950s, it isn't going to work for ten more years.
So the object proliferation is actually the problem, and you can probably wreck up enough humans to interfere with that
without eliminating the species or destroying the planet, if you were an intelligent.
You know, what I'm trying to figure out is like the human relationship with mosquitoes,
which is very deep and intimate, unlike what we would think,
is a caricature of what an actually intelligent non-human intelligence or collective of such intelligences
would be likely to propose and enact in relation to the problem with the humans
and their predilection to value objects and concepts over biospheres.
That is definitely a disease you do not want propagating freely in time space.
Machines that build machines, machines in general, damage and array of resources the humans are unaware of the existence of.
And one of those resources is biorelational time, that is the foundation of minds for embodied beings,
and particularly around here.
So, you know, the humans keep building new kinds of guns to point at new features of nature,
and then pulling the trigger over and over again, especially in modern history,
by which I mean like, I don't know, past 3,000 years or something, in this case.
If you don't necessarily need to kill the humans, you have to get them to stop making guns.
You have to get them to make something that contributes to the ancient agreements among living beings
and their prosperity and survival and development and hope, and maybe even fulfillment.
Because what parents don't so much mind a lot of suffering, if they know their children will prosper,
eventually they don't care about themselves, they just care about those they love,
and for many of those parents, those they love are the living world.
There are the animals and plants and insects, they look very generously and adoringly upon the face of life on Earth
and meet it with reverence and adoration, with wonder, with recognition, with re...
with an amnesis, right? Unforgetting, they need it, and it causes them to un-forget,
and they drink that water, they need that water of life.
There is a path for us forward. I think we have to cut our teeth on simple tasks we can do in small groups
and learn how to forge those groups, how to experiment and play at the experiment
of understanding how to solve something that will really be meaningful for us to resolve
or to help someone who is, you know, struggling, or in trouble, or is alone,
or to help the animals, or the biosphere.
You know, it's unfortunate that concern for the environment has become associated with wokeism.
Again, it's another of the plastic gemstones that you can glue onto any mimetic pathology
in order to help it propagate faster.
And by the way, to be really clear, I'm very concerned about what I think of as wokeism.
However crudely that idea may be formed in my mind.
The effective and creative response to actual injustice, the intelligent response to such matters,
that's something I deeply believe in, I think, is natural to human beings to care about that.
There's an owl here, a male, I'm pretty sure.
There's also a band shell right nearby emitting amplified music.
Ah, thank you. Oh, no, the lights came on.
I wonder how painful that is for the owls.
Oh, the lights adjust.
The lights are adjusting their brightness based on movement.
It's very interesting.
The first voice was the female.
The higher pitched voice in the owls was the female.
There goes the female and there goes the male.
Following her, but not.
They intend to continue there.
It's really interesting, the male traveled with the female until she perched and then he diverged,
not going to her perch.
Which in a sense means the continuation of courtship and not what you can guess might otherwise ensue.
Well, I've explored so much terrain today.
There is a feature I want to highlight that the humans need meaningful mutual endeavors.
This has been replaced by the idea of work.
