they describe a sudden onset of radical disturbances.
And some of them describe a felt sense of impending doom
just before the transition.
And I know that I'm going to say something
that's kind of spooky, but anything that can steal something
from us that results in a significant loss
of the ability to detect the problem
can just keep stealing till we're dead, right?
Anything that does that.
And it should be obvious to the proportion of humans
perversely incentivized to go after the rest of the humans
for whatever can be taken from them.
And let's be clear, that's a significant cohort in terms of power.
It doesn't have to have a big number.
Seven powerful people without agenda, they're going to make shit happen, right?
Here we see the dark side of the power of human agreement.
And that dark side is weirdly all around us.
And it's very difficult to forge a vessel
for discovery, insight, creativity, play, and triumph
in an environment where every organization can be captured.
Anything that succeeds can be captured.
So we might have to together become experts in the short term
one stroke, two strokes, successful quest or caper,
mutual adventure, rescue, rehumanizing, liberating.
We might have to become really good at forming a pod like group,
training it briefly, running some experimental quests,
and then going after something really worth achieving together
and dissolving and then going on to the next phase.
I've noticed that living systems in nature do this all the time.
They have extremely meaningful, however momentary,
semiotic or really pro...
Well, something I can't say in English.
It means pro-transsentient.
Endeavors where we don't just build a vehicle,
we lift the whole context, you know, two or three orders above
where it normally sits.
And what I would suggest is that whatever the fuck happened in 2018
was the opposite.
Something drained a context.
And it may have only been partly human.
It may be that even the zombie functions that run as human civilizations
and societies
obey some kind of a synchronizing influence, right?
Causing them to expand dramatically in concert with transformations
of broader contexts we have no language for or can't detect yet.
What Eric was saying was that
if you observe someone
who is really straining at the edges of their capacity to act
and this is something you will see in common between...
And by the way, there's ways to mimic this so you don't have to actually do it.
You can appear to be doing it and make shitloads of money
and gain a lot of human attention.
But
if
our cultures, our nations
are strange caricatures
like those assembled by an insane AI image generation system.
If they are strange caricatures of our actual or possible humanity
then war in a sense is them fucking.
And for the unfucked hallucinatory nightmare
of not actually being human
thing that our nations have become and maybe always were
nothing, there's nothing more important than getting off that way.
This should be obvious if we just track where the money goes.
Where's the money?
It isn't in infrastructure, it's not in social development or education,
it isn't in healthcare.
The money is in generating disasters which...
This is why the zombie functions that run this way
have as one of their organizing imperatives, their mandates, their...
I'm using that word again...
to fail.
Okay, we understand you're new here, Joe.
You've only been here a couple of weeks.
We're trying to produce...
You thought we were trying to produce a free energy device
and so you brought us seven designs that as far as I can tell as an engineer
probably produce free energy.
Don't ever do that again.
I'll let it go this time.
We're not here to produce solutions.
We are paid to study the problem.
That's what we do.
At great expense.
We get a lot of money.
Three million a month for a 25 person organization.
We get a lot of money to not solve that problem.
We'll let it slide this time, next time.
You're not only out, we'll come after you.
Don't go bringing stuff like this to anyone else, either.
This is the problem that we have with the prison military industrial complex
that Eisenhower clearly saw clairvoyantly,
but also not clairvoyantly.
He didn't have to imagine it in the future.
He was being faced with it during his presidency
and was trying to do what Eric said, in a sense,
which is to hear the sound of his own actual voice
above the din of compliance
and the nine kinds of compromised, cult-like, weaponized perspective
that feeds the paper mills of national invective and propaganda
and that actually run the prisons and that actually run the wars
and that actually eat the money and so forth.
But they don't just eat money.
They were satisfied to eat the money.
They were worth paying them off just to keep them indolent.
Yeah, if that, that wouldn't be the worst investment I could think of
of, I don't know, 30 trillion dollars over, what, 20 years or something?
15, who knows.
And that's just the money, right?
Wherever you see money of that magnitude, you can be absolutely certain
that environmental, relational, cognitive, and metabolic obliteration
fields and layers of it all around where that money comes from
and what it gets used to do and what it gets used to ensure we don't do
it together.
I'll be back in a moment.
So what did the people who I've spoken with report directly to me
and through others?
A sense of impending doom, almost a sense of impending doom,
like Frank Herbert's science fiction,
which I think both things would be right in a bizarre way.
Sudden feeling of relief, brief, right?
Some of them described a brief feeling of relief
as if something really heavy they'd been carrying
had disappeared or been taken away.
And then a total lack of motivation, disruption of sleep, eating,
sudden dimming of awareness and senses,
decreased desire for sex, but decreased desire for relationships.
Near absolute, a very strong avoidance of work,
loss of the desire to go to work in a dramatic and unprecedented degree.
Some of these things I felt myself for most of the people I've talked to,
it wasn't a temporary change.
It was what Mariners might describe as a sea change.
The whole context is different from what it was yesterday.
And as Mariners will tell you, there's certain kinds of calm
that, at least for ships long before motors,
there's certain kinds of calm, certain flavors of it that portend disaster.
One thing you will see as a theme in cultures older than our own,
or even our own, not so long ago.
And you will see it both in...
You'll see instances of this that have at least not terrible results.
You'll see other instances that are clearly tyrannical.
Let's not throw the whole idea away,
because we've seen tyrannical implementations of ideas
like the German phrase suggests Arbeitmach Frey,
which in a relatively literal simplistic translation is work makes free.
So you tell everybody that you're bringing into a gulag
that work will earn them freedom,
when in actuality what you have here is a death camp.
Nonetheless, humans need, and many tyrants have long been aware of this,
humans need to feel useful and that they're contributing toward a meaningful communal identity
and efficacy, triumph, glory.
And, you know, if no one gives them something better to do,
then war and hatred will serve.
When things are really bad, like they are right now,
we're going through this period of an undeclared depression
affecting millions of people worldwide.
If I know 50 of them, there must be millions, hundreds of millions of people
who are like, geez, you know, something that fucking went missing from my life.
Am I getting older? What's the problem? What's the cause?
And they must be doing, you know, 900 things to try to understand in their own way
for those who were thus affected, which probably isn't everybody.
I mean, in fact, it's not like there's a strict cut-off date of 2018.
There are people who felt the loss far before then
and people who felt the loss sometime after then
and others who haven't felt it yet and may not.
Humans are sort of like a dish that you splash liquid on the counter toward the dish, right?
The splash beet juice, right, toward the dish.
And then what you'll see on the dish is lots of places are completely clean.
Nothing you can detect there. There might be molecules, right?
But nothing visible.
And then other places are crimson red, right?
They're bloody, you know, in that sense of the metaphor that I'm weaving here.
That's how actual phenomena work.
The ones that affect everyone at once are...
Well, we would, you know, they have a quality that we would call...
Okay, so the situation is someone has moved the dish, right?
And...
So the dish was on the counter previously.
Now we're going to place the dish onto a body of water's surface.
And the dish will sink.
And while it is sinking, let's say the dish is made of a mirror-like substance.
It will reflect the surface and what is beyond the surface.
It will look like the sky.
So our cultures are a bit like zombies when they are not intentionally inhabited
by humans free, mostly free of perverse incentives
and the urge to mimic virtue rather than enact it.
Obviously it may seem, and it perhaps often is, that in a state where you have to conserve
some form of energy, I don't mean electricity or gas,
you have to conserve some form of energy that is primordial to human potential,
human awareness, human opportunity, human nature, human communal endeavor and recognition.
If you're going to have to operate in an environment where that fundamental energy has largely disappeared
for reasons that are not easily explained, I mean we might go looking for seers
to help us understand this, or possibly scientists, but they're pretty unlikely to
be capable of the kinds of observations we need to get data about such things.
It doesn't mean obvious, right? Science is useful when it is useful.
And there's lots of places where it is, regardless of how captured it's become.
So one of the things Eric was saying was that we appear here in the West.
To have undergone a nearly complete evisceration of our collective motivation to enact virtue,
to chase liberation together, to discover.
I mean he's particularly concerned about something I'm concerned about too,
