Hello, everybody, including the Stellars, Jay.
Welcome.
I was listening to Eric Weinstein.
And that is the way, the correct way to pronounce.
It's Stein, not Steen, in this case.
Just to help you remember in case you care too.
And what he was talking about was complicated to
synopsis.
One of the subtopics was the danger of artificial
intelligence, which is something I can and will riff
on at length sometime soon, but probably not today.
We'll see.
And as some of you know, I've been deeply and rather
urgently curious about a phenomenon.
I think it's the latter phenomenon.
We'll find out later.
Yeah, I've been deeply curious about something that
took place in my life around the end of 2018 and involved
a sudden transformation of my lived experience as a human
being that was quite confusing.
And I'd be inclined to think that this is personal to me.
I'm traversing the boundary of what I might think of as a
life phase or something has gone horribly wrong in my body
or my mind or both.
And of course, it's relatively easy to become suspicious of
oneself in a broad variety of exotic and often momentous
ways.
It certainly didn't feel like this is local to me, but then
I always have the question, how would you know?
To the degree that you're isolated or unable to...
You have access to a broad group of people with whom you can
explore quest actually together.
And I want to be really clear that if you're trying to learn
something, you want a tightly knit, brilliant, curious,
passionate, playful, creative little cohort of three to eight
people or something to do the work with.
Because in any situation where you share motivations as a human
being, and in case it isn't obvious, all of work.
That's not a small category.
The entirety of work.
And all of war, the entirety of war, both of these two things
primarily capture and weaponize in their own ways, deploy.
Both the intrinsic urge, and I want you to hear the word urgency
when I use that word there.
The intrinsic urge to follow each other into something like
triumph, glory, if you will, beauty, profundity.
To follow each other into meaningful roles, and noble,
and triumphant endeavors together.
And if any of us take a moment and stop and ask ourselves,
does any of my human experience muchly look like that?
In a way, a lot of that is make something new happen.
Children are very good at it.
They just play.
Of course, dismissing it with such a simplistic word
doesn't help us understand what's really going on there.
It's nothing like the common supposition of meaningless
costumery and role-playing and so on.
Notice that much of what the children do qualifies as role-playing.
The adults are doing that but not realizing it,
and they're often playing roles that actually suck,
that are terrible to play for the sake of jobs and war,
for the sake of the academy rather than learning, and so forth.
Eric said that one of his favorite quotes, which he said he loves,
and I know what it is to crafted a phrase that one feels pretty excited
to have participated in the birth of.
This is possible in language and it's possible in English.
Few of us have good reason to reach for it regularly.
Yet most of us have suffered losses and injustices
that would incline our hearts to rise from their common graveyards
and speak posthumously about what killed them.
That would be a heroic endeavor.
You certainly want a small cohort of human agreement.
The agreement to pursue, for example,
what we refer to in English as a course of action together.
For mutual benefit, insight, for justice,
not in the sake of punishing something that went wrong,
but in the sense of doing something so beautiful
that everyone who ever lived would obviously agree and stand up and cheer
where they present. That's what I mean by triumph.
I don't mean game theoretical zero-sum-ness.
I beat him, whatever. I don't mean that.
There's always an option more beautiful than any that's ever been tabled.
In a sense, this is what humans go nuts over
when they become very interested in small sequences of time in a sporting event.
Notice those two things.
What is primarily meant by sport?
The actual underlying meaning is we will become heroic together.
There might be a subtext that goes something like
while threatening but not actually killing each other,
while threatening to destroy the foe
and even using similar language.
Largely, if not completely, avoiding explicit lethal physical violence
the way something like war does.
Obviously these two very confusing behaviors of humans have a lot in common
and discovering what they have in common
and where that originates
and how those forces could be redirected
would be the mandate, not the mandate,
the... it's not purview.
Would be the description of...
Some of you will know the word I'm trying to remember.
Somewhere between mandate and purview is this word
and I think it starts with P,
the provision of a worthy mission, right, a quest
in which our triumph would liberate many beings.
And if there's a simple definition
of the kinds of quests that I think we come to human incarnation
in order to participate in,
ignoring that language is fallible and confusing,
we might say something that resembles,
let us return degrees of liberty, insight, communion, and memory
to each other, moment by moment while we dwell here
in a very confusing layered array
of desynchronizing masquerades
proposed and in some cases mandated
by something that is neither human nor sane.
We will work against those things together
to ensure a better life for our children,
a happier eternity for our ancestors,
and indeed for all of the kinds of children and ancestors
that the Earth produces.
And maybe we could extend it beyond there.
No, all. All forms of ancestors,
all forms of children in all of time on every world, right?
As if they were one family, which...
I have good reason to strongly suspect they probably are.
So, Eric's one of his favorite quotes
or something he said is,
and I may be paraphrasing slightly,
but it's such a short statement that
whatever noise I'm likely to introduce will be very minimal
and will probably preserve the spirit of the speaker
rather than depart into my own projections.
He said,
many people will die never having heard their own voice.
And he doesn't mean
the kind of hearing
that I am at present experiencing
in my ears of my speech.
He means something like
what your soul itself would compose
given the liberty and skill required to do so.
In a moment of cataclysmic passion
that not merely transforms history
but mediates it in such a way
as to pierce the veils
of both linguistic and social fictions completely.
A shining sort of insight,
a passion of meaningful form.
And the ironic thing is that Eric has succeeded in doing something
that it might be called a grunge in my private language.
It's a branching, it's a specific kind of branching.
There are statements that turn out to enact
and at the same time describe what it is they themselves are doing.
And one of the things that Eric is doing there
isn't as dumb as speaking.
It's not as simple as speak truth to power.
Interesting though that sometimes could be
if it hadn't been captured and weaponized against its own origin
by nefarious amalgams of zombie-like intention
in the dead protocols humans run and call civilization.
And maybe just there, I was doing what Eric was doing.
He's raising a sword against an entire dimension
of actual injustice, of immiserating humans
and all beings on earth.
Because if the humans aren't happy, boy,
will they visit the punishment
to every possible place it can be visited
and invent new ones today.
He was doing what he was saying.
He was lifting his voice.
This is something that he obviously deeply believes in.
And I think he wants to do more than speak.
Given the opportunity,
I doubt this guy would continue to sit on stages
expositing the trouble and his perplexity
at what might be understood as our mutual continued explicit
toleration of and or active,
or I should say mostly passive, both,
passive and active membership in.
This is what he would be very concerned about.
And I think most people, given an exit route from that charade,
they might be very cautious and frightened at first and timid.
But if they're given a modest taste
of the results of creative enactment,
creative mutual enactment of such principles,
they're not going to go back to McDonald's,
to the McDonald's of human purpose.
And one of the things Eric is saying
is that something has gone horribly wrong.
And give me a moment here.
Something has gone horribly wrong in such a way
that it appears at least here in the West.
I can't, you know, and among many people known to me
that a fundamental resource that ordinarily causes our interest
and motivation and so forth has disappeared.
It has at least been occluded if it hasn't been straight up stolen.
Now, I don't know what happened at the end of 2018.
It's pre-COVID.
Having spoken with many people,
