that it depends on what they're looking for. If they're looking for the beauty, they can find it.
But if they're looking for absurd, omnicidal, self-devastation,
I mean, our species acts like a guy who takes himself hostage while attempting to rob a bank.
It's so ridiculous from outside.
And, you know, anciently evolved intelligences would not be entertained by our japes.
They would not see our species as intelligent at all.
At the group level, we are bad. We're doing bad things.
Every single human being go to them and ask them. They'll tell you. Ask them the questions.
Do you trust what your species is doing? Do you trust what some nation is doing?
Any of them who are still in any way sober or connected with their own minds will say no.
Do you think the humans will establish a path to a sustainable and livable, humane, intelligent future?
No, they will not. Not the modern ones. Not the ones we have running around today.
So one of the things Eric was suggesting, which I agree with, is that something has affected our motivation very profoundly
in a relatively, you know, in the span of like one or two generations.
And maybe in a span much shorter than that.
And we're used to changes happening in pulses over time, much like contractions lead to birth.
We've eradicated the play in the clock spring.
Now they happen now. Something that would have pulsed and given us a signal that it was coming just happens.
There's no pulsing.
We've learned using science to detect transformations in particular signals.
For example, signals from space to the surface of the earth.
Such that there's a bandwidth. There's some bandwidths we can watch.
And there's very good data to suggest that we can predict earthquakes by watching for a set of transformations.
In the duration of...ah, there it is.
Okay, up.
Then...
Sorry, I'm watching a blue heron.
It was about to do the old signal dance.
But then the wind where it's sitting became too...
too unstable. It made its footing unstable, its basis unstable.
It's hard to do the dance when the thing your feet are on is moving.
Wow, maybe that's one of the messages this whole recording is about.
There's a lot of different variables that contribute to the stability or instability of the earth beneath our feet.
Anyone who's tried, for example, you could put some pontoons on or some magic sauce on the soles of your feet.
They allow you to float. They allow you to step out onto the surface of the water.
Your chances of walking are zero. You're going to fall down right now.
Because you need something probably more like complex ice skates than sneakers.
The surface of the water is much more slippery than ice.
What I was saying was there are both certain signals from the earth that are sent in an electromagnetic frequency range.
At the same time, we can detect a change in how long it takes signals from, for example, GPS satellites to reach a location where they are received.
Subtle transformations in those signals were noticed before the Fukushima earthquake.
Now, of course, we have a big problem here and the problem is that academic science wants to continue failing to solve the problem of earthquake preparedness.
So again, we come to a situation where somebody brings them an answer and that person does not get to continue in their career or is viciously attacked.
I just had an encounter with a crab spider inside a calla lily.
I haven't seen them in so many years and I'm really glad to see them here.
I'm unsure. I've looked for them in Golden Gate Park.
I don't think I've ever seen one. I've only seen them in a very specific garden in which I have not seen them for many years.
So that was kind of an exciting moment in nature.
I must remember the moon cycle.
The ones I saw were female. I saw two of them in a small group of flowers.
That implies a much larger population than those two.
For there to be two on such a small group of flowers, it could mean many things.
We have to hope that the intelligence is involved in composing time space and probably involved in the composition of organisms and possibly involved in the propagation of life across living worlds throughout time.
We would have to hope that when I was in the bathroom a moment ago, I took a break, a restroom break, there was a mosquito.
It made me think of how humans, the kinds of mistakes that humans make in their attempts to control the mosquito, quote unquote control the mosquito population as if it's a separate thing from them.
And this is what I mean when I say we've defected from nature on purpose as a species.
My friend Ryan Furstiver works with animals in Lethbridge. He's part of the system in place to, in his words, protect the animals from humans.
And in his way of life, he is fulfilling important obligations as a human being to remember the intimacy of the filial relations between humans and at least the living world.
This causes him lots of problems.
In his quest for a mate, for example.
That was funny.
I'll come back to Ryan in a moment. The jogger who just passed me, she said, in the sense that I ask so many questions and then I don't leave space for other people to do that.
That's familiar. There's an even worse problem than that, which my son was speaking of the other night.
Imagine that you're so curious and insightful that you're constantly showing people problems in their behavior or their thought or their situation and solutions.
You're implying solutions, but they don't want a solution.
What they want is a relationship. They're trying to bond with you and you're, meanwhile, directing critical thought at them.
And I don't mean critical in the DEI sense. I mean critical as in critical thinking skills.
We have to be careful these days because many features of our lexicon are being gobbled up by, I don't know, hopeful monsters. We might call them.
So you can imagine a situation in which, for example, someone like myself, I'm very interested.
I think we're bonding. My impression is that we're bonding around insight and questing and adventure and consciousness.
When I have never tabled that proposal for mutual agreement in any reasonable way.
And the other person is just trying to see like, is there something warm here we can have together?
Human, can we bond? If I say, I like the show on TV, is that likely to elicit a catastrophic critique of modern media and how it dumps us down?
That's a really uncomfortable position where if I have to preview in consciousness all the angles of the circle where critical gaze can produce an issue, a problem, a judgment, a criticism.
Pretty soon I can't speak at all.
I have close friends who struggle and I love them and I think they're heroic, but they shouldn't have to be heroic alone.
They struggle to compose a spoken sentence in any actual conversation and perhaps much more so with me than anyone.
Because they imagine that I will bring the momentum of my critical faculties to bear on them when they speak in the same way that I do when I'm looking at human civilization, society, what we call industry, war, etc.
Media, which is not going to happen.
If they ask me to do something like that directly, then maybe.
And I might nudge them a little here and there if I think they're trying, like we're actually engaged in an intellectual conversation.
Like I was yesterday with my friend Brian.
We were engaged in an intellectual conversation and so we're both trying to nudge each other toward insight.
But again, I failed to put the proposal on the table that just says, let's make some agreements, let's have some principles.
And one of them is that we will, in all honesty, integrity and good faith, attempt to help each other to see better together whenever we are seeing.
We will resist the urge to nurture our pet biases and perspectives.
We don't have to kill them, but we will resist that urge and we will go for what in the song title is like higher ground.
I think there's a couple of lyrics using that phrase at least.
We'll go for a better perspective and we're going to bring our hearts with us.
We're going to be emotional. We're not going to just be abstract.
We'll bring our hearts with us and we will climb together.
We will help each other see more clearly, more usefully, more intelligently, more creatively than we have before.
And some of that will be playful. Some of that will be joking with each other.
I heard a rather captivating advertisement that utilized, and by the way, I'm sure this is being weaponized as we speak,
but I heard a rather captivating advertisement in which it was pretty funny.
Both the guys are British, but one of them is speaking in, what would I call it?
People would call it more privileged language, the language of privilege, the English, the British.
I'm not even sure if the primary speaker was British, but he had a good chunk of British accent.
And was speaking in a relatively sophisticated character.
Whereas the other guy is aping a sort of skillful moron.
And the advertisement was for a language teaching program.
So in the front you have the guy who's giving you the pitch.
And in the background you have included a naysayer who is obviously japing, right?
He's playing a role. He's para, yeah, he's para-japing.
He's playing a character that is intentionally caricatured for effect.
And that kind of play is very, oh gosh, you keep using the word very, that kind of play is effective for humans.
Because we have evolved to doubt first advertising itself.
And then the monopolar accolades of advertising, this product will change your life.
We'd like to hear detractors inside the advertisement.
If people put detractors inside the advertisement, their advertising can become vastly more effective.
And somebody has noticed this fact.
Particularly, yeah, some brilliant young advertising copywriter has noticed this fact.
And I'm sure that's not the only time the tool's been employed.
But I found it sort of charming, which was bothersome.
And in a sense, what you want as an advertisement, excuse me, as an advertiser,
is anything that creates stickiness in consciousness, brand recognition, you want that.
And negative recognition can be useful.
Though it isn't always.
When it comes to topics like these, what's going on?
What problems are we facing? Who is we? What does we even mean in 2024?
Is that an outdated or archaic idea?
And who has captured we-ness and is weaponizing it?
And then, you know, problems like, well, what do we do? What can we actually do?
Do you know what to do? Darren, you see this problem.
You probably experienced the problem in your own life, or you would not be focused in this way.
Or the phenomena, even if we don't frame it as a problem.
You see these phenomena in your own life, in your own experience.
Look, let me be clear.
My lifespan here is limited. I have reached the outer edges of the solar system of Darren's identity and imperatives.
I don't have to reproduce. I don't have to.
I'm not forced to try to make money every day by circumstances.
Which reminds me, I have to go back to my friend Ryan.
So, you know, Ryan goes out on calls where people have what they consider to be a problem with an animal.
And usually a problem with an animal is kind of similar to some people thinking they have a problem with indigenous people.
And what is the problem? They keep showing up.
Currently, our modern nations and societies, we have a problem with a specific, it's not funny at all.
I'm not laughing because it's funny. I'm laughing because it's ridiculously confusing and a mess.
We have a problem with certain kinds of religious fundamentalists.
Hopefully we have a problem with them who would like nothing more than to slaughter the innocent people.
And there are different varieties of that disease among the humans.
We need to be very watchful when any population or organization becomes oriented by exclusionist propaganda.
Or anything resembling kill them all and let God sort them out.
Or anything resembling kill the infidels. Just slaughter them.
Take great joy. It's a holy purpose.
You can see the inversion of human purpose of intelligence in these charades that are devastating and horrifying when enacted.
And are always being enacted all day long.
27 million times per minute.
We've created engines of dysphoric megalomania.
But any time we start to hear the cry, you know, kill the infidel, we should be very carefully concerned with how we try to deal with the problems arising from that.
And it doesn't matter if the infidel, it doesn't matter who the infidel is.
And we're certainly hearing noises like that.
In the West, they haven't quite reached the pitch where you can openly say.
Where, for example, woke culture or extreme right wing culture can get away with straight up saying, you know, kill other people.
But we're on the verge of it.
And often in nations, if this kind of disease gets started, it's either because war has been selected as the next move.
She notices it.
The dog saw that I was interested in something, so she came over and checked it out.
It's the natural response of a satellite intelligence.
They would like you to check out what they're interested in, but if you're in the dominant position, they will certainly check out what you're interested in.
So yeah, war is, when we see this kind of thing going on, war either has already been happening or it's next on the agenda or both and more.
Because you can bleed off if, okay, let's suppose, let's take a model, a toy box society.
The toy box society and one thing that's happening in the society that is very alarming and disturbing is that every few days or even, you know, more often, some young or older male and almost never females goes batshit insane.
Loads up on guns in a no-modge to Kurt Cobain and kills a bunch of innocent people.
So in the sandbox, right, in our hypothetical mini world, we notice this is happening.
Well, there's two things you can do and which one you're going to select depends a lot on what your underlying motivations are.
If your underlying motivations are intelligent and humane, what you do is you don't attack the symptom.
You don't attack the young men.
You might remove them from the capacity to repeat the behavior and sometimes that may mean killing them because they've already decided that they're on a suicide mission.
For example, even then you don't have to kill them.
But you study them and you determine what was the genesis of this and what you're going to find is that it's never merely mental illness.
Most likely that's what you're going to find.
You're going to find out that the structure in the sandbox, the structure of the society is wrong.
It is bad.
It's malignant.
It's lying.
And the poison it's producing gets concentrated and men tend to concentrate it better than women.
Or they both concentrated equally well.
They just concentrated differently so that one of the common expressions in men is sudden inexplicable, relatively inexplicable mass murder.
Or you get the serial version of it.
You get a serial killer.
So when you see that you can study and resolve by changing the structure of your society and by repairing the value systems, the relational systems, the identity systems so that it's actually rewarding to participate.
And there are endless opportunities for such participation.
There's no reason to have a society that isn't like that.
And yet we do have the built for failure model that produces what might as well be cognitive, social, relational radiation.
And along with that, we're facing lots of weird kinds of actual physical radiation from devices and electricity and LEDs and Wi-Fi cell towers and so forth.
And there's a group of people that will say, for example, there's no evidence of a name that's harmful.
Bullshit!
The membrane of every cell is an electromagnetic wonderland of delicate protein folding and other kinds of operations.
There's no way you can bathe those cells in noise and expect them to work well.
And there are certain kinds of noise that will definitely kill them off or reduce their function catastrophically.
And that can happen so quickly that our data gathering doesn't track it.
The data is 100 years behind what nature is up to at this moment in human culture, most of the data.
You don't get a signal till long after it's too late to respond to it.
So the other protocol you can enact around when you notice that the men or that it's common, how should I put it?
It's too common, right? It's much more common than it should be that young or middle-aged men explode into violence.
And it doesn't have to be, right, they kill up 70 people. It can be just focused on one person or a small group of people or something.
Again, punishing them is the wrong fucking idea unless you're a prisoner, in which case you make money from punishing them.
Now you have an incentive to pretend, no, the problem is in that man, right, in the case of our sandbox, right?
It's not, it's in that man. We have to attack it back and make it pay for its crime.
There is no crime that has ever been committed that can be paid for. Crime is not a system of accounting.
