And that night, I got a call from George,
what's his last name?
Horse Capture.
He's not Blackfoot.
Where is he from?
Try to remember.
It's from another tribe in Montana.
I want to say he's Grovant, but I'm not sure.
George Horse Capture.
This is the Smithsonian's Indian.
And George calls me and says, who the fuck are you, basically,
not in too much of a different tone than that, you know, like, hey, we got a letter from you
at the Smithsonian. I see you've got, you know, I see you've got real old person's
permission and all of this, but I don't know who you are.
I don't know what you think you're doing.
I think you're probably disempowering the Blackfoot community doing what you're doing.
I don't think I'm going to send you any of the Smithsonian's data.
I think you can fuck off.
This is basically George Horse Capture's message to me.
So I went over to my advisor at the University of Massachusetts and told him,
I got this weird phone call from George Horse Capture.
This is what he said to me.
I get it, you know, he's like, yeah, I get it too.
What do I do about it?
I said, I don't know.
Just leave it for now.
I guess I'm not getting Smithsonian stuff or whatever.
Right.
So it's kind of left it.
A couple of days later, I get another phone call.
And this is from Joyce Spoonhunter.
So Joyce Spoonhunter is the first cousin of Marlene Bearwalters, who was the Tribal Council
member who I was working most closely with on the Blackfeet Tribal Business Council previously.
So this is her first cousin.
And Joyce calls me, Joyce is the person on the Federal Register
for the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act.
And that act just happened to come out like that year.
It's 1995.
That act was signed.
I mean, I guess it was written in 1990, but it was only signed by George Bush in 1995.
And I didn't even know shit about it.
I mean, I kind of understood about repatriation stuff a little bit from the literature my mentor
had shown me.
But I didn't know about NAGPRA, the Native American Graves Protection Repatriation Act.
I didn't know about repatriations with museums.
All I thought was that I was putting together a guide of where the shit was in the world
so that people could find stuff to look at, to learn.
So Joyce calls me up and she's the person who's listed on the Federal Register.
And she was trained by George Horse Capture at the Smithsonian,
the guy who had called me a few days earlier.
And so she calls me up and she's upset.
She's mad.
She's like, I don't know what you think you're doing, but you're doing my job.
I'm the person on the Federal Register for Repatriation.
I'm supposed to be collecting the inventories for our tribe.
And I'm hearing from all these museums that they're getting this inquiry from you.
Who are you?
What's going on?
So I told her, hey, I was on the phone with her, but hey, man, I'm not trying to step on
any of these feet or anything.
I was working with Earl and Marlene and just trying to pull in inventories from these
museums and just trying to try to pull in inventories from these museums.
I don't know anything about this dag press stuff, but let me tell you something like
within walking distance from me, there's a beaver bundle at Harvard's Museum.
I just was in their accessions the other day.
I'll send you all my information about it.
But they have a beaver bundle right here.
And she did a whole 180 on me like in a heartbeat and was like,
do you think you can go over there and start negotiating to bring it home?
And I was like, yep, I think that's it.
Yeah, totally, right?
So Joyce Spoonhunter invited me into repatriation.
She was the lead for the Blackfeet Nation on repatriation.
She's the only person listed on the Federal Register for it.
And she's the one that said, Ryan, can you go negotiate this?
So I did.
I contacted Harvard.
I said, I'm interested in coming to have a meeting talking about bringing that beaver
bundle out of the museum back to the community.
I'm representing the community.
And they said, well, we have this new repatriation liaison called Emery-Victor Scout.
Emery-Victor Howe, sorry, Emery-Victor Howe, and she'll help you.
So Emery gets in contact with me to schedule a meeting, and she is very, very French,
like overwhelmingly French accent.
And I don't know, dude, I was probably 23, 24, dealing with dealing with a middle-aged
French academic working at Harvard.
And I know what the fuck to do.
So I bought two bottles of wine from the Willamette Valley where I grew up in Oregon.
Really good wine.
Really good shit.
And when I went to Harvard to meet with Emery, I brought this wine.
As a gift.
And she was like, Ryan, do you buy me this one because I'm French?
No, are you French?
I didn't even know.
Somehow or another, I won Emery's heart.
I think it, I don't know.
I feel like it was kind of through the wine thing.
But that was just a gateway.
I think I would have won her anyway.
I won her heart, like really won her heart, like she was in love with me.
She was married.
But she loved me.
And right away, she was like, okay, we have to be very careful.
This means that they're going to try to stop this repatriation.
She started fucking coaching me, dude.
This is where they're gonna, this is the angle in the law that they're gonna use against you.
You have to make sure you craft your argument against this
and against this.
And she fucking taught me how to craft a repatriation claim to beat Harvard.
Wow.
And it was, it was beautiful.
Yeah, and, you know, and they had to go through with it.
Yeah, I mean, this is where Harvard School of Law is.
It didn't put her in good terms with the museum.
Of course.
Yeah.
Not surprising.
And they didn't know the full extent of like how she'd help me either, you know.
Right.
They just thought she was the go-between, but she was really,
like, I would give her, okay, this draft and she'd be like, oh, look out for that sentence.
They're gonna pick that apart, you know.
And she really, she really coached me to help beat,
so where I could fight every other museum after that without a problem, you know.
Yeah.
There was a transfer there.
There was.
Right.
She transferred you the power to fight museums in a way.
She did.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Can you hold that thought?
Yep.
Okay, I'll be back as soon as the processing is done.
