So this is actually part six, and we talked about her helping you understand how to argue
against Harvard, the museum she works for, to succeed in repatriating Blackfoot traditional
longings. Yeah, yeah, so that was that was Emery Victor how she she helped she helped me out to
make sure I had a successful successfully written claim. The only person who can sign off on that,
of course, is Joyce Spoonhunter on the federal register. So Harvard wanted Joyce intended
to send a group of elders out here to pick up the bundle.
But Harvard wanted her to come physically,
view it, and sign off. And, okay, something about coming back to the the categorization of things,
we've mentioned something earlier. In Harvard, in the Peabody Museum, the Peabody Museum was,
you know, not originally like a cultural museum. I think it was originally a paleontological
museum, actually. But it was it was much more a natural history museum
than it was a cultural museum to begin with at Harvard. And all of the beaver bundle
had been parsed out throughout the storage areas to conform with categories.
It's like dissecting your father and putting different pieces in different boxes based on
which function you think the piece had or some ridiculous even worse thing.
Yeah, so so, you know, beaver pelts go over here in their museum storage,
goose loon pelts or whatever go over here.
Artifacts, human made things go over here and are separated into all of these different categories.
So the beaver bundle was spread all over the museum, all over the museum.
Was there a central index of what the beaver bundle originally contained that you could work from?
Yep. Okay. Yeah, there was there was a there was an original inventory.
And for the most part, they had all of the things, all of the items of the bundle.
What was what was really missing was this bag. They call them
corn husk bags now, but that's just a colonial era thing. There's a type of a basketry bag,
almost like a purse that was made on like just just over the mountains from here,
Salish Kootenai, those, you know, those areas.
Those bags were very complicated to make.
It wasn't like, I mean, normal Native American basketry itself is very complex and
like God, there's not even a market that really pays what it's worth in the world, you know,
for the kind of artistry that goes into normal basketry. But these bags are especially
like, even the skilled artisan is going to take them a long, long time to make these bags.
They are tightly woven hemp bags with designs and, you know, with with dyed designs on them and such.
Corn husk bags, they're called today.
But there was an old, like in the beaver bundles, the corn husk bags.
It was a trade item and obviously like a super luxurious one. And it's used to hold your seven
rattles. It's a rattle bag in the beaver bundle. And so this bundle came to Harvard with one of
those bags, but Harvard could not find the bag. And then they let me through the storage
with Anne-Marie and we could not find the bag. So we think the bag's gone from the museum.
A lot of things have disappeared in the years from the museum. And we think that's gone. And so we
get the rest of it all together in a room and stuff. And Joyce is going to,
Joyce is, they want Joyce to come and identify it. Make sure that's the beaver bundle, sign off on
it. She has to physically see it. No bullshit. Yeah. But the tribe won't send her.
Black feet nation at the time was just not going to invest, send her out there for it.
Meaning they won't pay for it? They won't pay for her to get a plane ticket in the hotel to come
out and do what she needs to do to bring that bundle home. Oh my God. She's the only person
on the federal register who can do it. Only the single only person. And they won't fly her out
there to do it. Wow. So I fly her out there and she stays at my apartment.
And we go into a meeting with the director of the museum whose name I don't even remember
as well as Anne Marie Victor Howe. I know her first name Barbara. I know that because every
used to bitch at me all the time about Barbara. So I remember her. That's why I think I remember
Susan too. But Barbara meets us in this fancy room at a long table and there's art
paintings of all of these like Harvard presidents or something right around the room.
And me and Joyce are there sitting across the long table from Anne Marie Victor Howe and Barbara.
And Barbara says you have to appreciate this is Harvard. She was she was British. I don't know
right British accent. But in her British accent she said you have to appreciate this is Harvard
University. That was her opening line. And Joyce retorted with not a fucking delay.
You need to appreciate I'm from the Blackfeet Nation and our men are ready to come over here on
horseback and take this fucking bundle back you know. She didn't say fucking but
she said we're gonna come over here and take it. We don't care about Harvard.
Means nothing to us. Yeah.
And that's where we started that day.
Wow. But we just had a duty to do like the process in Oregon like the legal argument.
I had already sealed it dude. I'd already sealed it. It just had to be signed off.
I made it happen. I fucking brought her there and housed her and wrote her to the museum and
wrote her to the airport and got her off back home and all that shit
to sign off on that beaver bundle.
But a month later a group of elders showed up in Boston.
I thought that they would know what they were there for.
Nope.
This group that showed up they were on a tour. This was a group of elders
from all four of the different Blackfeet tribes.
So it included Carol Murray from Scoppy Beaconny the Southern Blackfoot in Montana
and Tom Blackweasel from Scoppy Beaconny in Montana.
It included Alan Pard from Apatosy Beaconny in Alberta.
It included Frank Weaselhead, Martin Heavyhead who would become my father-in-law.
Narciss Blood who would become my best friend for two decades.
Les Healy, Annabelle Crossbeard Wolf, Alvin Mountain Horse from the Bloods.
Do we have anyone from Sixica?
I think we did. All right so it was only three of the four tribes represented but they all came
in they flew in and they were on tour they were going to Chicago and then Boston and then Washington
D.C. Or no, no Boston was their last place. I think they just went to Chicago and Boston that
trip. Yeah yeah yeah yeah I'll tell you the Washington trip because I was there actually but
um
yeah they went they went to Chicago and then the Boston and they just thought that they were
going to be touring the museum. Really Joyce never told them that they were picking up a bun.
Like I don't know what the fuck you know really myself.
You know a lot of my a lot of I don't want to talk bad about Joyce but anyway
it was it was weird to me that that that I had to fly her there it was weird to me that the elders
that came there pick up the bundle didn't even know what the what the heck was going on.
And then I went to the airport I like rented a van I knew they were coming I had a whole plan
okay we were gonna go pick up the bundle at the museum and then and then I was gonna take them
I knew they their plane flight wasn't for a couple of days so I was gonna take them out of the city
into Connecticut to Foxwoods to the to the Mashantucket Pequot tribe.
There's a big casino hotel there it's a lot of fun and we were gonna stash up there for a couple
of days and then go back to their flights and such right. So I rented I rented a van like a 10
person van or something like a big van you know and I went to the airport to pick them up and I
missed them somehow they'd got taxis or something they got they got to their their first hotel
and so I drove over there and I talked talked to somebody there I can't even remember who I
who I'd met there might have been Les Healy might have been Narciss I can't remember
but the gist of it was all right well we're we're we'll we'll see you in the morning
and come pick us up and we'll go to the museum and and so and that was that was what you know
was intended anyway I was just gonna try to give my ride to their hotels and they didn't have to
pay for taxis you know sure but anyway so in the morning I went over there to pick them up
then they were already going got in my van and everything and we started going driving I started
driving over to Harvard and I was telling them yeah we got the beaver bundle like everything
stashed off in one room it's but it's all pulled apart because I you know I told them how they
had it all over the museum you know right and so you know you guys are gonna need to like
put it back together and sing it out of there you know oh and I've seen them like looking at each
other like what the fuck what's going on you know right what what they had no idea they didn't know
who I was they thought I was somebody working for Harvard they had no idea they were there to pick up
a bundle it was all hitting them off guard and but they rolled with it you know yeah I've known
these people for the rest of my life now you know this is this is decades later it's it's it's great
to be able to like think back on this and think you know they were all in that predicament and
they just fucking they were just rolling with they're like yeah fuck yeah we're gonna take a bundle
you know like they didn't question nothing didn't ask a question they just you know we're going with
whatever what does this guy say okay you know so I could see them kind of like kind of like
figuring out you know who's gonna do what and shit right and Alan was the only one that
you know Alan and Frank hey seem to be the ones that like all the locusts were on you know all of
the fucking you know you guys are gonna really have to handle this stuff so we get to the museum
and we go into the room where all the bundle components are and Alan starts like physically
putting the bundle together and Frank is like discussing things with him as he's doing it
I I don't know what the hell they're saying because they're talking in Blackfoot
yeah Martin calls me over to him because he's picked up this like tobacco cutting board from
the from the bundle and Martin calls me over to me he's like what kind of wood is this
he thinks you work for the museum still no no what do you think oh yeah yeah he thinks well all
of them think I work for the museum they think you're an academic yeah yeah I don't know right
we don't know what they thought of course it's true yeah but I don't know what kind of wood it is
either of course yeah it's just a it's a very martin kind of question though you know of all the
of all the things to be curious about he wants to know what kind of wood that tobacco cutting board
is made of and I think Narciss and Annabelle are looking through my photographs because I went
through the whole Peabody collection
before they came everything in storage and there's some there's some really
the Peabody has the coolest like most Indiana Jones storage
of of all the museums the Smithsonian has the most guarded
like to get into the Smithsonian's and well that's a I'll tell that when that story comes yeah
you can back to off just a little bit thanks um
yeah I'll tell you about how you get into Smithsonian when we get when we get to the
Smithsonian but Harvard has the coolest secret little chambers and shit full of like like
little tiny like elf like doors that you have to climb little ladders to to go through and you
and you move through this little door and it opens up into this gigantic fucking storage
of world treasures well you know um
Harvard's yeah sorry I can see myself in the camera I know how I'm depicted myself
okay I know I just want to see your whole face because I want to see your facial expressions
there we go yeah um
so I've I've taken pictures of everything in Harvard that's Blackfoot that is listed as
Blackfoot they may have other things too and that that's other stories I've gone back there
for other things but um but I took pictures of everything and there is a pipe in there
and a headdress in storage that are are very interesting to the Horn Society and um
that pipe is what's called a Caesar's pipe it's a whole different kind of bundle that's now
I don't know if we'll be able to renew it Alan could have
but it didn't get there there were there were components we were looking for they had the pipe
um and we could have made the other components even but
um anyway um Harvard had the pipe and they had this headdress
and Narcissus and Frank were looking at my picture Narcissus and uh and Annabelle were
looking at my pictures only and then and probably Alveon that's Narcissus's wife
and um and then they start asking Barbara if uh we could go look at those things
and so um and then there and then in the midst of that someone brought up like where's the
rattle bag I think out I think Alan was like where's the bag you know it's on this original list
and uh they were like oh we looked for it and he's like uh if you guys are going into storage
why don't you look again ah so we went off on a journey a bunch of us from the group probably
have to group I know Narcissus was in it Frank was in it Alveon I think Annabelle was with us
we went off to to and Carol Murray most important was with us
from from um Scoppy Picani from the Southern Blacks and so we went off looking in
first we went into the exhibit and they opened up the glass case
so we could look at the at the women's society headdress that they had on the exhibit
oh yeah
so we took a look at it
and Narcissus told the museum you know this is a very important told Barbara
this is in a very important um headdress from our women's society
um but because you are willing to give us the beaver bundle back
we promise we will never ask for this headdress in the future
hmm
now he did that
I subsequently learned
because it was a fugue
one of the one of the headdresses the the boys had made and sold to Madge Walters
there was BS yeah
looked just like the real thing yeah but you know what gave it up
no uh sign no paint around the brim anywhere like the people who would have worn it would have been
painted yeah
so they knew it was a fake yes
so that's in Harvard
and no way
did you guys find the bag now yeah I'm still going on with the story that was just the exhibit
then we went to the storage we went to the storage and the first things that the people
you know were interested in was like Frank being a horn society elder um and an inapska
which is very much like a Caesar's pipe almost like Caesar's pipe is it kind of in between
beaver pipes and and thunder pipes but um Frank was really interested in seeing those things
and so we went up into that secret little
that little like elf door storage area the really cool area where that shit was
and um pulled those things out and
Frank was telling Barbara
when the the headdress was in front of him he got
really a serious look in his eye
and he is telling Barbara
I have the transfers for this headdress
I can put it on
and walk out of this museum and there's nothing you can do about it
and you know I think he had her he had her scared you know
like this is this is this British woman in fucking Massachusetts that like
