consumerism, war, ridiculous nonsense.
If we could just pull those elements and get some better ones in there, at least in our children, at least for them,
rather than just continually infecting them with the incredibly dangerous array of elements that we're familiar with,
our minds are made for forms of relation.
The humans have largely failed to imagine, but have sketched in films and stories, however poorly.
But we've got a loadout, myself included, that prohibits and precludes that and evicts us from it.
And regularizes identity, role, meaning, until there's not much of either of any of any of those things left at all.
It's like the skeletal remains of a role, the skeletal remains of meaning, the skeletal bone that was once an animal, right?
It's how most of the modern systems work.
It's a little different in different languages.
Some of the ancient languages, probably Chinese and Japanese and Arabic and Hebrew and all kinds of other examples,
those maintain some dreamlike dimensionality that leaves a much vaster space
in which living minds can grow and learn and discover and awaken.
But their cultures, like ours, have been infected with, I don't know, the thrisp army of the moderns.
We could call it Western civilization, but I think that's an almost useless generalization and not entirely true.
It's something more like technologies and the processes and imperatives that support them and generate them.
And when I talk about the humans in representation, I want to be as clear as I can.
It's almost a mode of anti-dreaming that depends on and identifies with the tokens it produces that point at people, situations, phenomena, so on.
And these tokens bring with them the necessity of maps and models, which should be toys of understanding things rather than seen as facts.
Fundamentally, no one knows why there are things or what a thing is or what a being is or any of these essential questions.
We have no answers for these. What we have is maps and models and tokens and artifacts that are the result of our departure from nature into representational cognition as animals.
It seems very likely to me that ancient peoples were at some phase in the development of our cognition very distrustful of plain spoken language like the kind we use.
Most forms depended on song for their root elements.
Song plus language, but language alone, very confusing.
And the idea of writing language, you can see how the representations kept becoming more and more artifacted over time. Music is lost.
We have just speaking now, and then comes writing where there's no sound at all, no music. Just words, just tokens.
We do have something crude that resembles loadouts. If I go to do a task, help someone with their computer or something, then I adopt a particular set of function elements in my thought and my role changes.
And the goal space is much bigger than fix the computer. It's enjoy each other's company, be human together, solve the problem, bring some light.
But you can see in what I've just described there's a map, and this is what representational cognition is good at. The problem is that those maps are mostly fictional.
They're just representational maps. They're not the phenomenon they're maps of. That's a completely different order of that which exists.
But we take the maps as true and real. If I ask 20 people if they know what a tree is and I point to one, probably all of them will say yes.
But no one knows these things. Even deeply profoundly insightful people will admit it's a great mystery there. It's beyond conception. Though they might also admit that they recognize that humans call that phenomenon a tree.
If we could lift our minds above the representational layer so that its systems and maps and functions became our playthings and learning tools, rather than dictating to us models of identity that are too flat for minds to entertain and survive.
And the same with language. We can lift ourselves above. Mines exist above the products of representational cognition, not beneath.
For many of us, much of the time, myself included, the vast momentum and the ubiquitous ever presence of all of the artifacts of the way the humans are using representational cognition is profoundly compelling.
It's like being dragged along a path by a gravity that you might subconsciously notice but rarely becomes conscious.
I've studied many of the problems that happen when our minds become confused with the representations they produce and are subject to and manipulate and so on.
There's all kinds of weird trouble there. A division between the true intelligence within us and the extremely narrow, demonstrative acts in the rep cog layer of human societies.
Yet every night when we dream, that whole thing becomes much more malleable and soft.
This is that thing, that is this thing, this is this person, that is that person, they did this, she did that, he wanted this.
All that stuff gets very blurry and in that blur there's space for life, in that ambiguity. It comes to life with meaning and relation and depth and richness.
Thank you for joining me. I look forward to learning together again very soon.
