Because usually what we mean by real, well, this is the public voice again, right?
I'm saying what we usually mean by real.
And what that means is that's a tiny subset of whatever might be going on that the humans have agreed about, named, analyzed,
and can now either ignore or directly manipulate with ease, hammer.
Hardness of the cement between my feet, beneath my feet. Real.
But the scope of our nature and situation that is real is very, very modest.
And so if we take the real to essentially, if we see that as equivalent with the true,
then we've snipped off most of the wings on that bird and chained it to a rectangular frame on the wall.
So yeah, we are born telepaths.
We practiced it as infants, mostly our mothers, but sometimes our fathers were sensitive enough to get the picture.
And when we couldn't get them to hear our minds, then we made noises with our mouths.
Because they would always hear the noises with our mouth. Doesn't mean they'd respond, but at least they'd hear it.
Many of our abilities that are hidden from us are more easily recovered in small groups that share a common purpose, interest, and fascination.
If only one other being is with us, our capacities are probably increased a hundredfold if we're together, if we agree.
That agreement opens windows inside us, opens doors inside us.
Let's say in forms of light, awareness, opportunity that are otherwise much more difficult to evoke.
The religious traditions of the world, most of them have been pretty weaponized with fear and so on by now.
But the principles are sensible.
Try not to veer from the pivots of the original missions.
And it's not that you try to do that to avoid punishment.
It's that not doing that is actually painful, harmful.
When I'm virtuous, I'm not virtuous because, A, I'm trying to avoid punishment, or angering a monotheistic God, or angering anything.
It's like swimming or playing on the piano or making these recordings.
I'm trying to find a way that feels like memory.
I'm trying to find out what I'm carrying, what I brought to this birth.
I'm trying to remember the possibilities of our humanity that have long lain dormant under a barrage of criticism, skepticism, opinionaring.
And I think you're trying to.
We belong to a special branch of the humans, though we also belong to the whole dang tree.
But sometimes we choose to come together to remember and see and learn and grow.
And when we're doing that, I trust it.
I trust it more than all the weapons.
I trust it more than all the money.
I trust it more than power.
I trust it more than speech.
Each one of us carries within us the entire history of this world, all the beings and peoples who ever lived here.
And I don't say this so that we will become frightened.
But frankly, even I am ashamed of how poorly in my daily life I'm able to embody this awareness to enact it.
But in making these recordings, I'm making the attempt.
And in listening to them, I trust that you are making it with me for these moments we are together.
And I trust that.
I always thought, though I wasn't conscious of it until I was a bit older, maybe a lot older,
I always thought that the living beings were people.
They were just different people.
It was the ant people and the bee people and the snail people, because I had a backyard.
Frog people, there used to be a lot more of those around.
Toad people, tortoise people, rabbit people, squirrel people, mouse people.
And there are many features of insight that are so useful that you're not in danger of getting it wrong.
Because they bring back living time, living space, living minds.
They bring them back into our experience, unify them.
And finally we're being lifted above that dead structure of representations, cognition, objects, war, opinion, various misbehaviors.
And that, that changes everything.
It changes the meaning of my own history.
It changes who I am, who I can become, what I can sense, see, learn, know, create.
And honestly, in my heart, I want all the people to be free.
I want all the peoples to be free of whatever that thing is that's infected the humans at the group level and at the individual level.
What is that stuff? Where does it come from? Why is it there?
Probably most of it could be understood to originate in a simple polarity.
The difference between fear and adoration.
But not the kind of adoration that comes from being enchanted or asleep.
The kind that comes from memory and recognition.
The kind that comes from our hearts, our souls, our origins, our natures.
Wait!
We often hear stories...
Well, actually, we sometimes hear stories of people being offered wishes.
When I was younger, we used to play various kinds of tabletop role-playing games.
Dungeons and Dragons, Ring Quest, Traveler, Champions, Call of Cthulhu, lots of different games.
And it was a great deal of fun.
But it was fun primarily because we could explore features of ourselves through the characters we invented.
And we could do it together.
But in D&D, there's a spell.
I think it's just called wish, where you get to basically try to frame in language what you want to happen.
And almost everyone, if they get one somehow, they win one.
They use it very poorly. They use it to wish for an object that has power.
And this tends to go badly for lots of reasons.
The first one is it unbalances the game dramatically if they should have such an object.
But the second one is the DM has both a sense of humor and a sense of justice, or something resembling it.
And so, yeah, it tends to have ironic side effects.
There are, though, things we all I think hope for.
And most of us maybe set those down as we get older, or we change them into hopes for our children, or those we love.
But a lot of them are hopes for money and power.
And some of them are hopes for war.
I have wishes, but I'd be mighty careful about stating one, or even...
I mean, one of my wishes is to see better.
To see more clearly, to see from above, to see from beyond into my life and world, rather than from my life and world into something here.
I'm always better off if I have four or five perspectives on something than if I have one, but I was trained to go after the one that's best or the one that's right.
Unfortunately, the mind that evaluates that bestness or rightness is not very insightful and is more concerned with cutting things into parts and arranging them to my satisfaction.
When I would ask my best teacher a question, and I use the pronoun he casually here,
he would show me two or three different perspectives, each one of which delivered incredible insight, and then he would unify them,
which would deliver another shocking wave of insight, and then he would show me three more, or five more, but almost never one.
I don't know what my best teacher was either.
I have various words I can use to refer to it, but I don't know what he was.
All of our question words, we have seven.
What, which, when, where, who, why, and how.
And I think it's playfully humorous, but also important that all of them except one begin with a W,
almost as if you have to cut yourself in half and make two of you to chase any of those questions or answer them.
It's a doubling of the mind, because when we ask what something is, we're not usually asking about its nature.
We're asking about its catalog token.
That is a sparrow. This is a fork, right?
But one of them begins with H, which is the sound of life, that sound.
Exhalation makes a cloud of steam that changes form like the gnats when I was singing to them.
That one is closer to origin than the others by far.
How, how did it come to be?
Is really, I guess, functions are usually associated with what's, what is it doing?
What is the electron doing?
Not so much what is it being, but what is it doing?
But yes, I have wishes, one of them is for better seeing.
And I have the common wishes humans have for health and well-being and relationships and so on.
I also deeply wish to be helpful to relieve others of burdens they needn't carry,
they needn't suffer, and perhaps myself as well.
I hope for insight, I hope for good dreaming.
My real hopes are the old kind.
I hope for the liberation and health and well-being of all the beings.
I hope to remember together the original missions that we came here as honor
and not merely to accomplish, but to surpass.
Thank you for joining me.
I look forward to learning and remembering and seeing together again very soon.
