I can hear public people, even social people, saying that. They're just gnats.
It's much better than a computer simulation. It's living beings together.
Most of what it's useful to know about the situation that was happening, as I sang with the gnats, isn't included in Darren's things to gnats.
It's not in the language. You won't find it there. You might imagine Darren singing or emitting tones.
You might imagine things about the gnats, but what's actually going on there has very little to do with that description.
Because, A, it's relational.
And so it has many dimensions of form and character and movement and development that aren't found in nouns.
So often we use particularly nouns and language in general to silence the imagination and to settle the matter so that effectively we can now ignore it, become very bored, and go watch television or whatever it is we do when we don't know what to do with ourselves.
Don't know who to be with ourselves.
So the people who'd say, oh yeah, you had an out of body experience, while not wrong, all that would do is categorize it and in a sense normalize it.
To remove it from the anomalous, the secret, and put it in the anomalous, the social.
What if we leave it in the secret? What if we decide whatever that was, it isn't something that language can convey.
It doesn't fit in words or categories or any of that.
It comes from a place before them.
And I would argue that most of what's truly beautiful and important, profound about being human, comes from that place.
I have been fascinated with language since I began to acquire it and I love to learn new ways of thinking and speaking and relating with my friends.
And with, you know, to whatever degree it's allowed with the social layer and maybe even the public layer.
Humor tends to work really well in the social and public layer. Everybody likes to laugh, especially humor that doesn't make fun of anyone but maybe makes fun of something we've thought we understood
by talking about it.
In a way language is the first technology. It leads to all the others though. Fire and metalsmithing and printing and computers in our time are pretty profound.
So too are our weapons.
You know, if you surveyed living planets that had what we think of as intelligent life because all life is intelligent.
But if you found living planets and we could go visit 10 or 15 of them and see how the APEC's cognitives are doing and what are they up to?
What are they doing there?
And you looked at ours and you found out that they're investing most of their evolutionary momentum in tokens,
objects and particularly two objects, weapons of war and commodities like money, diamonds, gold, et cetera.
If you saw, if you could see 10 or 100 such worlds and particularly if you were able to observe them from a perspective that allowed you to scroll forward and backward in time.
And I would argue that not only is this possible but spacecraft aren't required and you don't need computers to do this.
And that's part of the secret, doll.
Consciousness is not local to the body, just like you probably, I experience it as if it is.
The body's a bit like the inversion of a child holding a balloon except that the whole thing's more than merely alive.
And what's holding the balloon is something so astonishing that so endlessly infinitely astonishing that you'd be better off not making words about that at all and just getting a taste of it.
And if we could observe many living planets and watch them over time but even if we didn't, if we just went at some phase of their development and then came back later and looked again and we saw animals doing what the humans are doing,
we would know immediately that that game leads to dead planets.
And it's probably done so here and it's probably done so even in our layer, the sort of layer of the dimensional layer that we inhabit because I strongly suspect that there are many other layers in which the Earth is there but is a different thing.
Jupiter's there but is a different thing.
In any case, if we watched the planets and we came to this one and we saw what do the humans invest their evolutionary momentum in.
It certainly isn't intelligence, mostly they invest it in war corporations and dead structure.
And for myself, and though I have some perspectives on the question, I have to wonder how could anything possibly go that badly wrong?
Imagine the efforts required to build and sustain the world's military structures, all of it, the whole damn thing.
You could take even one nation.
That amount of effort could accomplish 12 different kinds of miracles if we just stopped trying to kill each other, threaten each other over resources which aren't actually resources.
Most of those things are more like the organs of the planet that we emerge from.
Surely there are planets on which this doesn't happen.
In fact, personally I know there are planets on which this doesn't happen for I've seen them.
But there are planets where the apex cognitive invests its evolutionary momentum
in a way that echoes what all the organisms on the planet are doing together.
There are so many things they're doing and some of them are so astonishing that it's pretty difficult to frame them in language.
I don't want us to name them and then ignore them.
But one of the things they're doing is that they keep living time together in a symphonic hyper structure of trillions of organisms on a world in time space.
And from a really useful perspective there's just one organism here.
Everything here is one organism that takes many forms and so produces the potential for complex unions of organisms by doing this.
And earlier in the recording I used the phrase the original mission.
And there's more than one of them.
In fact, each of us and perhaps each being, each organism on our world brings with it to its incarnation memory.
Memory of before, memory of beyond, memory of the secret doll, memory of infinity.
And as it finds itself condensing into a cat or a tree or the oceans or the moon,
it tries to preserve the urgent and beautiful, the authentic, the holy, the miraculous.
If you wanted to get a glimpse of the secret doll, the secret aspect, there's lots of places on earth you can do this.
And maybe the best one is right where you are right now.
But that can be a little more challenging.
One of the best windows, living windows to the infinite we are and come from is the eyes of our children.
Especially the very young children, their eyes are shining with memory.
Not speech, not description, not maps and models.
The memory of origin, the memory of the beyond of the human, beyond of language.
And those memories are infinitely more powerful than any technology.
But technologies can put an end to them, maybe forever, around here.
There are worlds in which the apex cognitive develops insight and actual intelligence and relational integrity.
And I'll bet on very few of those worlds you would find a profusion of machines.
There are beings intelligent enough that they invent the automobile and decide we're not going to make these ever again.
This will kill everything. We're going to do any other thing than this.
Our actual nature is so astonishing that if we could but glimpse it,
we would leave the realm of language and representation mostly aside and alone.
We'd give it up because even in this moment as I'm walking and speaking,
there are a thousand living timelines, a million, a billion, endless billions of them in me condensing as me right now.
I'm just usually busy and beep, bop, get some lunch, do the thing, write the check, blah, blah, chase the money, read the book.
But I become insensate. I can't feel and remember them.
But every single thing we think and everything we do and our behavior, our communications, they...
Not only do they affect us very deeply, but they affect the entire history of life on this world.
And they affect the entire future of life on this world and beings on this world.
It's so easy to forget that although we're not gods, so to speak,
the scope of our ability is vastly beyond anything we've been told or shown.
The scope of our nature vastly beyond what we think.
And our ancestors and all the beings who've ever lived here, they're counting on us.
They're dreaming of a future for our children and life on this world that is infinitely beautiful and actually human.
And isn't an ugly doll formed of tokens and objects and money, commodities, resources.
They're counting on us to step up and remember the original missions together with each other, for each other, for this planet.
And those missions are more trustworthy and beautiful than anything you can dream up and thought.
They're not religions.
They are ways that are intrinsically virtuous.
They're not virtuous because they match some standard or declaration or law or rule.
They're virtuous because they recall and revivify memory, relation, communion, unity.
Our nature, infinitely rich, impossibly profound, is nothing like what we're thinking.
And it's not much like what we're experiencing because there are whole ranges of emotions we nearly never feel.
A friend of mine wants to attempt to tune a piano, which I think is a job best left to piano tuners.
But since he's bold and intrepid and intends to do it anyway, try it.
I'm going to give him a hand.
But I was thinking today that our nature is like the piano.
It's like the piano and the features of our soul, if you will, for lack of a better word, are like the harp and the strings.
I don't know how many strings there are.
The first two or three registers have two strings and the remaining, so it's 88 keys, the remaining registers have three strings each.
What I didn't know is that the harp of a concert grand is under around 35,000 pounds of pressure from the strings.
I guess the pressure on them is like 160 to 220 pounds each.
But our nature is like those strings.
It's also our nature is like the piano.
Is it still a piano when no one's playing it?
But what happens when someone comes to play?
Then everything transforms.
And I'm trying to remember how to play the piano of my soul in a way that's deep and virtuous and beautiful.
A way not only that I trust a way I know to be exquisite.
Most of our poor pianos are wildly out of tune and everybody's trying to tell us how to tune them up.
NLP, social media, hypnotism, life coaching.
And look, I get it. I'm a regular human too.
But what we really need is a chance to discover the wings that were chained to the ground throughout our development
and free them and experience them without it becoming a cult.
Without it becoming a gang, a religion.
I mean, pretty much everyone would sign up.
And I have some, you know, I've got a few pairs of chain cutters lying around.
I like to snip some of the chains at least off my thinking mind and sometimes off of my soul.
Because I've seen what happens when those wings can flex and come back to life.
I've had a few chances to fly.
My God was it astonishing.
In those moments, liberties beyond anything I'd ever imagined conceived of became real to my experience.
And mostly, there were liberties of adoration and liberties of insight.
There were forms of seeing available to my waking mind that I certainly never believed I could have any experience of.
And all these years later, I'm still reflecting on what I learned and saw and tried in my way to understand
or even to find a way to speak about that was intelligible.
Here.
It's easy to get bogged down in the tiny part of us that lives in the representational layer of human activity.
We've got a lot of gravity.
And there's the comfort which is actually part of the disease.
There's the comfort of thinking we know what is going on.
I don't know why in our culture this is common, but in America circa this year,
a lot of the males, and I won't speak for the females because I'm not one,
they can chime in for themselves if they wish.
But a lot of the males are what I would call opinionaires.
Not much insight, very little intelligence, lots of opinions.
And they tend to like to push each other around with these opinions,
which seems like an even more grave mistake.
And allowed to, they'd push other people too.
It's almost like, well, clearly such males are insecure.
But they might not admit to that.
They seem to think they know what's going on and somehow it's a good thing if they tell others what's going on.
It's almost some kind of an accounting disease if you look at it closely.
They think the way they count is right and what they count is true and how they count it is how everyone else should count it.
But it's a symptom of disorder and disease in our societies.
They naturally produce this problem.
Even our educational systems are pretty grim even where they're good because
they're mostly there to elaborate the narratives and technologies that have become dominant.
And as you can see, somewhere between few and none of those is lifting the water that floats all boats.
That's what the organisms do, left to their own way of being organisms.
They naturally do that all day long.
Just by being bees and trees and whales and badgers and beavers, dolphins and octopuses,
spiders, praying mantises, squirrels.
Just by being alive.
And there's an aspect of us that's just like them. There's our organismal aspect.
Just by being alive, you're actually probably accomplishing 19 miraculous things per second that heal time in the world.
Bring it back together, organize it, structure it in a way that's livable.
But unfortunately, a massive burden that the humans place on the biosphere for the most ridiculous reasons.
Pretty tough to affect that mess directly.
If you pull plastics from the oceans, they'll just produce more plastics.
It's like our species has been captured by something at the level of groups and societies.
That whether or not it's actively malevolent has pretty much the same effect as if it was malignant.
And there might be those various kinds of medicine that will cure that.
If the humans aren't careful, they're going to get some of the dark kind.
Well, they're going to get some of the dark kind anyway, even if they are careful.
Hi.
It's very difficult to be optimistic about the humans or our world in present time.
But you know, when things are very difficult to dire, that's the time when being beautiful together matters most.
That's the time when remembering the original mission to whatever degree we may be able to recover it.
That shines a light that heals us, each other, and the world.
And no matter how dire it gets, mostly as it gets more grim, acts of beauty and intelligence become vastly more valuable if we're counting that way.
And there's some good reasons to count that way.
Walking through a park I used to hang out in back when I was a bit of a hoodlum.
People are playing basketball, shooting hoops anyway.
There's some white cheeks here.
I'm not sure if I remember their name in Blackfoot, but I think it's Opspeany.
Though I'm probably, I doubt my Blackfoot accent is very good.
I love those animals. Very powerful.
You know, sometimes when I'm speaking, I can imagine the critical voices of others.
The public layer.
What do you mean they're powerful? Just geese.
They make eggs where you shoot them, where you try to run them off your land if they're eating all your grass.
Just geese. Shit happens.
And that's what a mind looks like when it collapses completely into representations and believes them.
When I see those beings, I know they are more than merely a people, but they are at least a people.
And they are ancient and profound.
The living histories of their ancestors and their ways of life are alive in them.
And though they don't speak in language, they can speak directly to a human mind.
Just as if they were a person.
And they can speak as a group, or they can speak as individuals.
But most of the humans don't remember the old ways, so they don't remember that minds don't need to make face noises to talk to one another.
And in fact, by the time you're making face noises, something really terrible has been going on for a long time.
And I can hear the public voices saying, what? Are you saying we're intrinsically telepaths?
To which, if I were being honest, I would answer, no, we're not telepaths, we're transcendent.
Most of us is transcendent.
And the stuff we call telepathy is a trivial side product of transcendent.
And that doesn't mean that I experienced that all the time.
But I've experienced it enough to know it's real.
Or maybe more than merely real.
