Hello everybody. Welcome. It's evening. Moon's in her first quarter. You know, every time
before I begin making a recording, it's funny, I just walked by a building and said,
why? You are currently being recorded. So I guess I'm recorded while I'm recording.
But yeah, when I first begin, sometimes I have a clear map in my mind of the terrain I want to
wander in. But I always take a moment to remember. Actually, I'm taking a moment now to remember.
All of the beings who have ever lived on our world and strove throughout their lives
to nourish and heal and sustain the world. Those people and animals and living places
and creatures in which what I might call the original mission was still alive and bright
and powerful. So I'm taking a moment right now to remember them. All of the people
countless lives in various different versions of this world over time who ached for the sake
of beauty and not so much truth, which has become a value laden word in our time. But
something more like communion, unity, remembering. A new hope for a better world for the living
places and the animals and the children, their children. But the thing that's interesting
about that to me is that if we can make things even a little bit better now, then our ancestors
wake up and cheer. And I think they're with us all the time and not merely in some metaphysical
model. No, I think they're actually with us. I think our bodies are made of them. So right now I'm
remembering those beings that strove for beauty, authenticity, virtues, sincerity, love. To raise
the water that raises all the boats. And I'm honoring them in my heart. And you might even say I'm invoking
them to walk with us and think with us and see with us together right now. And I'm also
remembering and honoring those of you who pay attention and listen and reflect on and share and
learn around the topics that we explore together. And though I often present perspectives that I find
redolent with insight and opportunity for seeing and learning and understanding. Every time I begin this
process, I remember all of you. And I wonder, what's in your heart? What's in your mind? Why do you come to
listen? And some of you listen to everything I do. And others come and take a sample. And probably don't
find anything too juicy in that little sample. But I'm trying to change the way I understand what it means to be
alive. And I'm trying to see through the strange, prison-eared representation of ourselves and the world and
relationships that we all struggle with. And I've been lucky enough a few times in my life to have staggering insight,
which I will say is similar to imagining, but much more like a form of memory. It's not as if I'm discovering
something. It's as if I'm taking the occlusions away. And then I remember, ah, this is familiar. This is a better way of
seeing. And a way from which I can learn to remember more. Many of the ancient philosophers sang the praises of
memory and surely, their memories, well, first of all, without books, if you strove to learn, you'd have to be able to
speak and listen and draw and maybe do some math. So because they had no recordings, they transmitted knowledge primarily
through coming together and chasing it. And starting with that agreement, the agreement among a group of people to try to remember, to give birth to the
memories in us that are by no means merely human. But our ancestors had other forms of memory and we have pieces of them if we choose to develop them in our lifetime. And when I'm making these
recordings, that's part of my goal. Because if I don't imagine the minds of others with my own in sacred quest for understanding and awareness for intelligence, for creativity, for insight, then my
wings become weak and it's hard to even lift my own mind. So I remember all of you who have come to listen and learn together. And I hope you find something truly amazing, perhaps even
astonishing. As we wander through the forest of the possibilities of our minds and origins, our ways of life, our ways of seeing. It's common for us to suppose most of what we're
taught in academia, with some brilliant exceptions, supposes, that our ancestors were essentially the same sort of humans we are. That they thought like us, dreamed like us, remembered like us,
behaved like us, and ached for awakening like us, ached for liberation. I don't think it's true because
the infinite potentials of our existence are poorly encompassed by our stories and paradigms, words, concepts. And in many cases, they're crippled or occluded.
And I think that it's very likely that the human minds alive at any moment on earth form something that resembles a single body that I'll call the Cognition.
And it has endless forms of connections. It doesn't have only the connection of speaking to one another, writing to one another, reading, seeing. It has non-ordinary connections. I call those the Mimula.
And so it was as if there was a unique world mind of the humans in each age, in each epoch. And they bled together when they changed.
But over time, many of our most precious faculties have largely been lost, though occasionally we find someone that, for example, can remember the sequence of the digits of pi to a thousand or more decimal places.
In other words, we see hyperbolic, narrow superfunction.
Ididic memory is a profound thing, but it seems a rather ridiculous and, how shall I put it?
With a memory like that, imagine what we could do with a resource like that, who we could become.
I think the ancient peoples had other kinds of memory, and we do too. We're just mostly not familiar with them.
Throughout my life, certainly since childhood, I paid close attention to anomalies.
And it wasn't that I wanted to prove the adults wrong, so much as it was that I doubted their certainty about words naming things, models, maps, concepts.
I once had, as a child, an unusual dream experience.
And in the dream experience, I became a ball of green light, and I floated up out of my body, but I was in my bedroom.
And I made a circuit, how ironic, of the bedroom as a ball of green light.
And I could see my body on the bed. Actually, I'm not sure if that's true.
I think I just supposed that that was true. I can't actually remember.
And I was extremely concerned about one feature of the room.
I could see the wires in the walls, and I was very concerned about the electrical sockets.
I don't have an explicit explanation for that, but I felt that there was something very dangerous there.
And when I awoke, I probably called my mother with my voice in the house.
Mom, mom.
And she came in, sat by my bed, lovingly.
And I explained my experience.
And she said something like, the funny thing is she's probably listening right now,
and she said, don't worry, honey, it was just a dream.
And over the years, my memory may have modulated, memories often do.
So I'm not claiming that I remember precisely what took place.
In fact, to remember precisely what took place would be impossible because it would mean
you'd have infinite understanding of a situation that you remember.
Though it's relatively easy to describe a sequence of happenings or events.
So my mother was sitting at my bedside, and I felt like I had just become something that was supposed to be impossible.
I became a little green orb of light.
Now, something strange must have been going on for lots of reasons.
But how did I know that I became a green light?
And actually, I'm not sure it was an orb.
It might have been like a cloud.
So how would I know that?
Why would I think that or say that if, in fact, I wasn't seeing the whole room?
How did I know I became green?
So I felt, though I didn't have this language then,
that something impossible and magical and astonishing had just happened.
Something that violated the entire charade of language and knowledge and thought.
Something that the adults should know about because they seemed to know everything.
In childhood, my parents were like gods to my heart, to my mind.
They were infinitely filled with knowledge and experience.
I had none of, or little of, it seemed.
So I felt like something world-shattering had just occurred.
And my mother was trying to tell me that it was just a dream.
And I knew it wasn't because I'd had dreams.
And I knew it wasn't a dream.
It was something different than a dream.
To my mother's credit, she may have known and been concerned about possibilities.
She may have had experiences, my father certainly did,
that were not dreams that happened when you're lying in bed.
Perhaps she felt they were dangerous.
But what could be less dangerous than rediscovering our actual nature?
Our faculties, our senses, our abilities, not as humans, as beings.
Percentages can be deceptive and they can be used deceptively.
But from probably most of the important perspectives,
nine-tenths of us isn't merely human.
There are so much more than this body and these stories and these descriptions
that compared to those, our actual nature, it's not merely infinite,
it's explosively infinite.
But something inhibits us, most of us, when we're awake, from remembering.
In some ways, it's as if there are features of the human cognizium, the network of minds, in our time,
that grow and propagate based on the amount of inhibition of our nature
that, quote, they can get away with, unquote.
It leads into the direction where I talk about the processes that inhabit the network in our time
and thrips and so on.
But I want to avoid that.
It's a bit too luxury.
Do you remember a dream you had that you knew wasn't a dream?
I have had a few.
And even the minor ones are fairly profound.
The minor ones were world-shattering.
Returning from those experiences, I knew that I am not merely human
and I am not merely this body.
Not by a long shot.
But the problem is that the network of human minds and language and behavior and jobs and paradigms,
it wears away at memory and insight for most of us.
Unless we have practices in which we can sustain those wings and grow them,
over time the feathers fade and have to be rebuilt, reformed.
Most of our lives, well, you see, here's the problem.
To be a modern human is to be layered for most of us, though each person's unique.
We have something like a public face, which is what we'd show to anyone.
And that's actually the face of the surface of the network of the minds.
That's the face of the membrane of the Cognition.
And we have an aspect that considers what others might think, how they might feel,
how they might gaze upon us, view us, see us.
And sometimes when we're alone, if we become very self-conscious, for example,
we may go over and over in interaction that we feel frightened by.
Usually, for me, it's because I feel my conscience becomes a bit overwrought
and starts thinking about how others might have seen me or how they might have interpreted
what I said differently from my intentions or where I actually made some kind of mistake.
I'm being recorded again.
So there's an aspect of that portion of our humanity that has its own surveillance features.
We can surveil ourselves, so to speak, and think back over our experience, behavior,
the politics of human interactions.
And that can get pretty fired up, that little surveillance aspect under some forms of intoxication or paranoia.
A very uncomfortable feeling.
So we have this public layer, and then there's a social layer, which people we know a little better get to see,
people who there's mutual trust and so on.
And that has a few gradients.
There's the difference between an acquaintance, a friend, and someone we're bonded with, close friend.
So the public, the social, the private, these are things that are reserved,
those of our interior and thought that are reserved for very close relationships,
such as those we might have with lovers, to some degree, with children, our children,
our ancestors, our family.
So that's a private layer.
And underneath that, there's a secret layer.
And the secret layer, some features of it are known to us, but we may not be conscious of them.
They are feelings, inclinations, attractions, and diversions.
Behaviors, perhaps in some of us, that we would never tell others about.
Most of the examples I can think are from childhood, like chewing my toenails off when I was younger.
Instead of clipping them, I would just bite them when I was a little kid.
It seemed perfectly natural to me, but I didn't go around telling people I did it.
Though with close friends, we probably discussed it, hey, do you do this? Do you bite your toenails?
I guess I must have been pretty flexible when I was little.
But there's a secret aspect.
And part of the secret is the human part of us, the human feature of this big bubble of us,
that does and thinks human ways.
But most of the secret isn't stuff we did that we wouldn't talk about or things like that.
Most of the secret is the ways we're more than human.
And actually, we should flip this Matroshka doll around and put the tiniest doll as the public in the center,
a bigger doll as the social, a bigger doll as the private, and a doll the size of the universe as the secret.
When I had that dream when I was little, what was happening in a way is that I was remembering part of the secret aspect of being.
Certainly secret from common humans.
Though there's a large cohort of humans who, if I told that story too, they would think they know what that is,
they know humans do it, they would probably think it was an out-of-body experience,
which technically, according to the language, is probably correct, but, or mostly correct.
But when we name things like this,
okay, I'm going to have to slow down and chase this one a little bit.
There are exceptions, but mostly humans use naming, moderns, English speakers.
They use the naming of objects for a variety of purposes, but one of them is to snip off identity.
That is a car, is it?
It depends on what it's doing.
I can think of 17 different things the car is, but if it's just sitting on the street taking up space, it's not a vehicle,
because it's not, it's a noun, not a verb.
It isn't goes along, goes along, goes along.
It's empty, it's a possession.
There's fuel and technology inside that bubble, and maybe personal belongings.
It's many things, but it isn't car-ing.
Mostly it becomes a problem when it's parked, and this is why we have alarms and paid parking and so on.
My point is that we use naming, in a way, one of the features of how we use it, is we use it to end curiosity,
to end wonder, to end awe, to end inspiration, to end imagination.
And in a way, if the people would say to me, if some people I was with would say,
oh yes, this is familiar to us, we know what it is, that what word?
My hackles would rise up right there, I'd get itchy, because they're going to snip it off and make it into a token.
And then they would say, you had an out-of-body experience.
The goal is similar to my mother's, though I think my mother was concerned with my well-being, not so much with insight.
What they would be trying to do is to capture it with a label.
And while, just like other modern humans, I do this all day long.
I say, oh that is a this.
It's not really true.
And to hold something in one's mind, whatever we hold in our minds, in the hands of our mind, and it has more than two.
Strangely, we become the reflection of that.
And this is why the language of identity can be so devastating to us.
There are a variety of species of gnats here, and a few of them respond very dramatically to music,
so you can actually almost play the flight patterns of the gnats as if they're a musical instrument.
They change their flight patterns and the swarm form differently according to different tones.
So are those then gnats? Are they just gnats? It's just some gnats, Darren.
