this kind of media, react to it like it and so on. Again, this takes a precious
investment that we might have made in change and flushes it down the toilet
into the car and actually makes money for them and for many of the forces that
they claim to be opposing like Facebook. Facebook is owned by people who
frankly don't care about us. They will punish you for attempting to make
friends. I currently cannot contact anyone who's not already my friend on
Facebook because I was punished for sending two friend requests to people
who liked my post. They made me sign. Maybe they signed me out of Facebook.
They made me sign back in and like a prisoner, they told me, you're not
allowed to make friends here. Okay. And not only that, because what you're
doing could be seen as harassment, sending friend requests to people who
like my posts. That does seem very harassing, doesn't it? There must be
something wrong with my mind. What was I thinking? On a social network, I was
trying to make a friend. Surely I should be imprisoned for this or even
tortured. Maybe fine. Who knows. Some kind of court case has to come out of it,
right? This is what's going on. We live in a situation where we're being
trained to act and respond and think like prisoners, essentially. The activist
pages that don't post material that empowers brings us together, organizes
our agreement, right, into a force that can be leveraged against the problems
that we need to solve and want to solve together against the forces that we do
not believe in, that we want brought down and transformed. Whenever they don't
help us do that directly, whenever they frighten us, whenever they tell us to
be outraged, whenever they paint us as victims, they are serving the enemies of
our humanity. They're serving the enemies of our human history and strife. They're
serving the enemies of life on earth and the enemies of our future. They're
serving the enemies of our intelligence and our unity. And our unity has more
power than any force on earth. If we can just organize a tiny portion of it, a
modest portion, say even 10% of the agreement that we could leverage right
now on any social network, we could change any nation on earth in 24 hours.
Maybe it would take a week, it would not take a month. Most of these activist
pages are doing the opposite of that. Every single post has nothing to do
really with protecting or saving anything. I want to just briefly touch on
one other issue, the petition, which actually means to be small as a force,
petite eye on. If you have to petition rapists to leave your daughter alone
and then hope that somehow some kind of result will come because the people who
are raping your daughter actually are getting intelligence and money from you
doing these petitions, you're gonna fail. If you have to petition
murderers to stop wiping people out, it's not gonna work. If you have to petition
corporations who don't even exist except as legal fictions to stop
obliterating the history and hope of life on earth and our living environments
from which our own minds emerge moment to moment, if you have to write petitions
asking them please don't wipe out the oceans, you'll be dead long before those
petitions will matter. So if you think that that's activism, you're confused.
I don't want you to stop signing petitions, go ahead and keep signing them.
But realize that that's nearly useless because what actually has to happen is
that some kind of a body who can leverage its agreement and power as a group
needs to confront those forces and stop them in their tracks immediately,
right now, stop them by any means necessary, hopefully by a peaceful means,
hopefully by an intelligent means that can transform them into something useful.
But if not, by any means necessary, they are wiping out life on earth, they are
staining the meaning of what it means to be a human being, they are changing the
nature of human intelligence with lies, and effectively we've got to stop them now.
This brings up the point that I'm going to touch on a false expert. So you've got false
activism, you've got people in science telling you your brain is a computer, dead wrong.
A single cell in your body has more computational power than all the computers
ever built by humanity. Your brain has nothing to do with computers, okay.
You've got religious authorities telling you that earth is a battleground ready for Armageddon,
or that it's a place we should have jihads, or even worse, the New Age people telling you like,
quantum physics means you can risk your way to a happy new world. You've got basically a whole
array of false collectives, each with their own agendas that are just as absurd as each other,
fighting to convert you to become their agents. We need to stop serving them,
and we need to tell them that we recognize that they're just fictions, that they're lying,
that they're not doing what they're claiming. There's nothing heroic about believing your
brain is a computer. There's nothing heroic about believing that the earth is a place you
just burn down so there can be an apocalypse, because you misunderstood sacred stories from
history. There's nothing heroic about the New Age people telling you that there's some kind of a
pleidian star command in the sky that's going to save us from our rampant stupidity. There's
nothing heroic about an activist organization that's just wearing the costume, okay. Those people
are lethally misguided and we have to correct them together now. Now here's the last point I want to
make. In those pages that actually do have some important content, and Mother Jones is one of
them, truth out is another, alternate, you can maybe find some of your own that you think are more
or less doing something actually valuable rather than just spinning electronic garbage at infinitum.
But in the ones that really are doing something, there's another problem which is this. If you
just watch which of their posts make it into the news feed, there's something very suspicious
going on. The posts that make it into the news feed are posts that support the agendas of Facebook,
the GOP, and Fox News. So that it actually starts to look like Mother Jones, 50% of their posts are
on Fox News. Or truth out, 50% of their posts are about the GOP or Fox News. When in fact, if you
look at their pages, maybe two to four percent of their posts are about that. But in the news feed,
which is governed by Facebook's algorithms, what actually leaks into the news feed from those
pages is only the stuff that's making Facebook money, that is actually acting as a platform of
support for the GOP, and that's constantly advertising for Fox News. What do you suppose
the effects of that are? Well, money. Facebook makes money. Fox News gets lots more attention and
money, and the GOP gets free publicity or even cash paid, paid advertising for themselves.
So we need to find ways, first of all, just as members of an electronic community, to protest
this and to disagree wildly, to talk about it constantly, and to enter into dialogue with each
other openly in a friendly, supportive manner that gives us new ways to organize our agreement
and leverage the power that we have in that agreement, and that power is unstoppable. Trust me.
We haven't even touched it, so that's why we're also afraid. We haven't touched any of the powers
of our human agreement or collectivity. We can do that, start doing it right now. The first sort of
steps of that process involve learning about the features of the environments that we're
interacting in, and that's part of what I'm doing here today, is trying to help us gain
some perspectives on that. Many of you will have your own ideas and perspectives, which I deeply
value and love to hear. Please, by all means, contact me. Let's work together. Let's cooperate.
Let's build community together, because that's the power we have with which we can change the
world. Before I go, I'm just going to pick out one authentic collective and show you the difference,
the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society. This is a collective organized by human beings
to rescue living intelligences older than the models that we have of time itself,
older than the universe, older than our idea of how old Earth is. These intelligences
are so irreplaceable that they're probably the single most valuable beings and places on the
planet. The Sea Shepherd Conservation Society is physically intervening in the slaughter of whales
by actually ramming their ships into illegal whaling vessels, shutting them down, telling the
whole world what they're doing, and taking part of the stain off of us. Because now, with a collective
that's truthfully organized, it's organized for an authentic, beautiful purpose, what happens is we
can then see that to be human means to protect beautiful intelligent beings. The Sea Shepherd
Conservation Society is one of the authentic collectives on Facebook that I want to encourage
you to absolutely support, copy their media, add your own intelligence, cooperate with them.
What they're doing is a bold example of the power of human agreement in plain,
simple understanding of the crucial importance of our ecologies, the history of life on Earth,
our capacity to protect each other, our humanity, and our future. Now that looks like activism,
and that looks like intelligence, and that is something that our children in the future
will be proud of. We need a lot more of that kind of collective. We need none of the other kinds,
together, with and for each other, in the future of life on Earth. I thank you for joining me. Bye-bye for now.
