Hello, everybody. Welcome. It's a beautiful sunny day in the garden.
Or rather, it had been grey and rainy, and now it's beautiful and sunny in the late afternoon.
Last night I was having a conversation with a close friend, and it became very rich and deep.
And the magic of a conversation can be hard to preserve and carry forward in our memory, at least it can be for me sometimes.
Because a conversation is a bit like a dream, if it's a really good one. And this was a really good one.
There were so many astonishing things we explored together. I'm really grateful for that conversation.
And we were talking about deep things, the nature of spirituality and birth and death, the narratives we've been exposed to and some of which we've chased.
In our own ways, throughout our lives. And both me and my friend have backgrounds that involve what might be referred to as mystical Christianity.
You know, we're born into the world of humans, and then over time we're exposed to these narratives, many of which over time have undergone weaponization.
And by weaponization I mean that something was added to the narrative that threatens us if we don't take it up.
So there's a common threat, which is eternal damnation. Essentially this can be understood in different ways.
It can be understood as being tortured forever in a kind of hell, or a simpler and stranger threat, is that we would be evicted from the presence of the Divine permanently.
Something that is otherwise always with us. And there's various different kinds of weaponization we might encounter in spiritual stories.
And it's a complicated mess because certainly in birth and death we can get into some trouble in all kinds of different ways.
And it's not my intention to explain any or all of this or to go over it in depth. But even many different spiritual narratives have something resembling hell.
And so for example in Buddhism, and you know when I use this word Buddhism I'm referring to a thousand different things, not one.
And the same is true of Christianity or Islam or Tantra. Whatever narrative we might pick there's a thousand variations now.
But in Buddhism the common thread is simply rebirth, perhaps not in a human form.
We might be born in a form that we would imagine or it's reasonable to think or people with vision have told us have a form that has vastly fewer degrees of liberty.
And so in Buddhism it's commonly something like the following is commonly said that a human birth is the most amazing birth you can have.
It's better than being born as a deity.
And I'm familiar with a lot of these narratives.
And I can see the evidence of them being weaponized over time.
Though it doesn't mean that there's no danger just because they've been weaponized.
I think there's some danger in life, in path finding in life.
It's also clear that the stories have undergone waves of weaponization over time as a way to gain converts.
Although it's a strange idea, for example, that whatever might be referred to by the word God, and I think there is something meaningful this word refers to, generally speaking.
The idea that whatever might be being referred to by this word or we might mean by this word.
The idea that we have to be threatened into loving it.
And threatened with severe, perhaps permanent, forever punishment if we don't get it just right.
This is a terrible idea.
And I know something about the origins of the weaponization and its functions and this and that.
And in our time, damn near everything is weaponized in various ways, especially in our socio-cultural linguistic experience.
And this is Schizogenic, it produces these kinds of weaponizations are deeply implicated in the minds of people who suffer from psychosis and schizophrenia.
Because on the one hand, we can't be perfect and we're not even sure how to get it right.
Or if it's even possible to get it right.
Or we can imagine some very extreme idealized monastic existence in which we get it right.
But we're incapable of embodying that.
And so we're getting it wrong in a way that we're consciously aware of, getting it wrong.
And thus we must certainly be in great danger of these narratives are truthful.
We're in some kind of great danger of losing our soul.
And losing our original light.
We're losing things that were associated with us.
There's a small creature here I've never seen before.
And it can hop.
And what is that?
Hmm.
It's kind of like a sort of cricket, but it's really tiny.
There's a little bitsy itsy bitsy mite near it.
I've never seen this creature before.
It's rather fast.
So there are all these problems
that we face in trying to understand something about
what's really going on and what's really important.
And all of this is deeply troubling.
Because in a very important sense we are like children.
And I strongly suspect that secretly in our human lives,
and this came into our conversation last night,
it might be as if our life is a kind of a womb
in which an embryo is undergoing phases of development.
But it's not a physical embryo.
It's a transcendental embryo.
And the development goes in waves and we're blind to all of this,
mostly, though we have intuitions and feelings around it.
And this is one of the beautiful tropes that came out of the conversation last night,
and it was suggested by my friend.
And I think there's really something to this.
There's something very delicate and beautiful and innocent
that's undergoing a strange sort of bipolar transformation that's growing in us.
And though we think of death as the end of life,
it is just as likely that it's the birth of this embryo into a new way of being.
And I'm not sure...
Well, the trope itself, when I say it's bipolar,
it's because there's a kind of a worldly education we undergo.
You know, where we learn language and we develop physical skills
and cognitive skills, relational skills, pragmatic skills.
So there's that branch of being embodied that's certainly part of what's going on,
but there's something deeper and profound.
And really, I think of birth as a human, sometimes a bit like preschool,
for something so astonishing we would never be able to imagine it.
Though we're made of it, we are it.
It's just that our conscious minds can't form a figure capable of containing it
or really even pointing meaningfully at it.
Though we get near this sometimes with song or dance or poetry or love.
And so, since I think we're all in a way like little children inside in our interiority,
and yes, there's all this narrative about grow up and be strong and be tough
and all these things for men and be pretty and be sexy and be intelligent
or whatever it is the imperatives for women become over time
and how the genders get divided from one another and all kinds of these things happen.
It just seems very fraught and cruel
because we're actually very vulnerable and delicate in an aspect of how we are in being.
It's not the only thing. I mean, there's something astonishingly resilient about us.
Huh.
As if in a way we can't be harmed.
Even though we can suffer and feel pain and loss and be injured and have illness
and be confused and feel sadness or grief or agony.
At the same time, there's something inviolable within us.
There's nothing immortal already by its nature.
It's not strange that the human world would be unfriendly to our interiority, our soul.
It's weird that the religions would have to use threats and condemnations, judgment
and rather cruel criticality in an attempt apparently to force us
to love something that it's absolutely natural for us to be and with and adore.
What's all this noise?
Part of the problem is that there's a kind of swarm of doll-like mannequins running around
without their souls in the human world wanting to judge and dominate and control
and threaten and terrify and convert other soulless mannequins
and maybe even there's some imperative to evict our souls from our common awareness and experience.
So there's some mysteries here that are worth exploring and I often explore many of them
but today I want to talk about remembering.
And this isn't the first time I've chased this topic in a video either.
I've recently spoken about map-making and how throughout our lives one way of thinking about part of what we're doing is we're making maps
and comparing them to see where there's conflicts or where there's harmony in these maps we make.
So I want to talk today a little bit about path-finding in our human experience and our deep interiority
in our life paths, in our relationships, in our thought and education too.
And there's a super sense which I spoke of in a previous video without which our ordinary senses would be senseless.
There's something that integrates all of our senses and makes of them meaningful and coherent, hopefully, experience and awareness.
And what I want to talk about today is related to that super sense and it's more than merely human orientations and imperatives.
So we're all familiar with experiences of affinity, neutrality and rejection or revulsion.
Revulsion is a rather extreme word that reminds me a bit of disgust.
And notice how disgust is a fundamentally somatic sense, right? It's like in our gut.
It's like the urge to throw up to get rid of something. No, we don't want this. We have to get rid of this. Revulsion.
So we have these experiences of affinity and desire, attraction, neutrality, right? We don't really care, we don't really notice it, and rejection or revulsion.
And these are experiences of our interiority. Sometimes they're visceral, sometimes they're emotional, sometimes they're cognitive, right?
We rationally decide, no, that's wrong or no, that's bad.
And of course, in reality, these distinctions are only modestly useful because underneath them, the intelligence of our body and perhaps even our soul is involved.
It's just subtle enough that we are, and we're so used to being who we are and how we are.
It's subtle enough that unless our awareness is also relatively subtle, we won't notice the engagement of our soul.
And we won't notice our super senses because they're what we're looking with. It's like trying to notice your eye while you're seeing in a way.
Or becoming the flashlight in the dark room rather than using it to see objects and colors and forms and landscapes.
But in the conversation last night, an old Greek word came up, and there's this idea that when we die, there's lots of different ideas, of course.
But there's an idea that when we die, we undergo some transformations and we travel through some difficult terrain.
And one of the stories is that we cross this river of forgetting, the river Lethe, the origin of the word lethal, which means to have our memory occluded, not necessarily obliterated but hidden.
So that we will continue this process of forgetting most of us, though again it's kind of bipolar. There's both.
In our human birth and our human life.
But there's a Greek word that I'm very fond of. The word is an amnesis, and it's related to the word amnesia, which is not always actual forgetting.
It's often used in senses that imply that there's a barrier.
A barrier that keeps us from being able to access our memory.
And strange things happen. Some people who have been in a coma, awaken with mastery of languages they've never spoken before.
There's all kinds of mysteries here that I think are important. I'm not the kind of person that pays too much attention to every possible anomaly and every conspiracy, though it's weird that this word has become so common and popular in our time.
And yet, at the same time, as something of a detective, I'm always on the lookout for little details that are like the keys that might unlock insight and understanding and awareness
that's otherwise quite difficult to come by. Thus my attention to the tiny insect earlier.
It's very uncommon for me to come across an insect I've never seen before, though I'm sure they're all around me.
So I've been thinking, I mean I think a lot about an amnesis, and I've spoken about it previously, but last night something particularly profound was going on in our conversation.
In that we weren't simply discussing an amnesis, we were experiencing it in the context of discussing it.
And so in a strange way, the ordinary polarity of language became reversed.
And language became then the expression of something we were actually doing together.
So we were pursuing an amnesis while our discussion oriented it, oriented around it.
And we made some progress, I think, and it was beautiful and really profound.
And one of the things my friend said that was, I think, really important, she said, you know, as we begin to talk about these things, I feel very timid.
And also, as if I'm trembling.
And this was really deep, because the aspects of our interiority, what I sometimes call our original light, our soul, they're well aware that the human world is profoundly unfriendly to them,
and wants to compromise and capture and co-opt and evict and blame and torture and vilify them in all kinds of ways.
And so I think it's natural that these feelings of timidity and of trembling accompany us when we travel into their proximity.
And this is complicated because
there are aspects of fear that emerge, unique forms of fear, that emerge when we're in the presence of insight or when our inner light begins to dawn in waking consciousness.
And this is kind of mysterious and may be related to not the fear of death so much as the fear of ego death.
The death of the kind of mannequin self that we identify with while we're awake, less so when we're dreaming.
But under some circumstances, in moments of deep communion, intimacy, attention, awareness, insight, wonder, creativity, joy, loss, terror, confusion too.
In some of these moments, the fear inverts and insight and an amnesis arise within us.
And we begin to recognize to see with the original light rather than the artificial light of representational thought and cognition, language and society.
And some people chase this or rather when we have desire or neutrality or projection, there's a kind of a path finding behavior going on.
It's not necessarily that we're making a map that we might be and we also might be reenacting a map, but we're trying to actively find our way.
And by our way, I mean a way true to our nature as human beings, as beings, as organisms, as spiritual beings, as individual creatures, as individual people, as quote unquote separate people.
But what I mean by that isn't separate, I just mean unique, don't really mean separate.
And while we're path finding, while we have desire or rejection or we're triggered or something's going on, part of what's happening is, and I say part because it can be overwhelmed by habit and noise.
But part of what's happening is we're following a trail with the deepest invisible blind aspect of ourself, the one who remembers having been many beings, the one who is still many beings.
And what the awareness of this has become occluded.
And we could go deeper and say there are no beings, but this is not my goal here.
And what I'm trying to get at here is that it's almost as if we're like someone tracking a strange animal, we're seeking an amnesis.
And when we find the food we like and we enjoy it, it's a little moment of an amnesis, of recognition, something fundamental.
And particularly if we seek friendship or romantic love or love or intimacy.
Then again, where it's an amnesis underneath all these desires and fears and concerns and collapses of awareness and expansions of awareness.
Underneath that is the desire to recover our awareness and participation in the original family.
In the world of original light.
And so within each of us there's something a bit like a compass or at least the needle of a compass.
There's a directionality toward an amnesis.
The sometimes gentle and sometimes severe retraction of all that occludes that blind, beautiful sense within us that knows its way back to origin, the same way a salmon finds its way from the ocean back to the stream.
It was born in and even up the waterfalls.
And all of life is like this direction really, although it has both polarities, toward and away.
And some of the away directions are, well, let's just call them very shiny.
They look like they'll be bright and exciting.
They look like something that could be desirable, but often this is due to the fact that they're mimicking some feature of an amnesis as if the living human world has become expert at counterfeiting its appearances.
And of course when we follow these, we become more lost, more confused, and something in us begins to starve and hurt and hunger and thirst
for our participation and recognition of the nature of the great mystery of being.
And again, it's ironic we're formed of this mystery, but this is really the problem.
It's all wrapped up in the forming thing. It's wrapped up in the form.
And once it's wrapped up in the form and we have actual senses and such, well, given the contexts that we exist in socially and ideologically and rationally and linguistically and pragmatically,
the great forgetting continues throughout most of our lives.
And it may be that some aspect of this is important, that this is part of what we come to human birth to learn about.
That the unloosable essence, while it can never be lost, it can be hidden.
And so we can lose contact with it.
It's funny that the Greeks chose this word this way because what they're saying, they didn't say remembering, they said something like un-forgetting.
And I think they were careful about this.
But even if they weren't, and it was a happy accident, it's a really happy accident.
Because you can't remember what you are.
You are.
You might be able to retract the occlusions that would otherwise render it inaccessible to awareness.
I understood what my friend meant when she said she felt timid and was trembling.
Because we'd gotten close to something very intimate that resists being handled, described, explained, named by the relatively sharp and artificial prostheses
of linguistic consciousness.
