It hides in the daytime, sometimes emerging in dreams.
What it hides because it knows the world in general and for the most part hunts it, wants the trophy, is trying to kill it.
And by the world, I don't mean the living natural world.
That world is its own eyes and face and hands.
No, it's the societal layer.
It's the cultural layer.
It's the commercial layer, the political layer, the religious layer, ironically,
that are all hunting it, trying to convert it into something they can control or enslave or vilify or counterfeit.
And so it is that for most of us throughout our lives, there's an aspect of our interiority that we protect very dearly.
We don't bring it out for public display, discussion.
And in fact, once we start making words, once I start making words, making face noises, I'm already fairly distracted.
Because that process requires the conversion of faculties whose intelligences lie in silence.
I wonder if just there you heard some wings in the recording, the fluttering of wings.
If you did, it's good, because that was a special moment.
These faculties within us are vastly more powerful and more intelligent, more creative, more insightful, more wise than all that we exchange them for, mostly unknowingly in our lives.
And this is the central message of most religion.
There's another way that's true and good, and we come from it and we return to it in cycles over time, in lifetimes without number.
And even the idea that we are separate beings, it's highly confused.
There's a layer in which its truth is relatively obvious.
The scope of that layer is profoundly narrow and can become more narrow as we depart again mostly unintentionally from the palm of our origin.
In which we might otherwise rest without concern, or rather without fear.
And so I think that underneath all the path-finding and map-making and thinking and confusion we experience in life, there's an ache for anemesis.
And this is the lure that religions employ.
And I don't wish to defame all religion. It's not my goal.
And also it's important to understand that sometimes we might have to use a prosthesis for a while to become familiar with something so mysterious and invisible and unlike our imaginings that without it we'd have no inkling to trace out.
And so in my own life, religious devotion has been profoundly useful even though I no longer think of myself as belonging to some specific religion.
You know, I have practices that are part of my path-finding.
But I don't take them as explicitly true. Rather, they're a bit like children's stories or fables or myths.
And it's not that... I mean, I'm not really here to talk about my particular path at the moment, but many of these stories and histories have been profoundly important to me and useful.
Even given their propensity to collapse into traps.
And I can't tell if I've evaded the traps. It's not entirely clear to me. However, I'm not married to any of the specific narratives.
Rather, it looks to me like all of the religions of the world, they're like petals on a single flower.
And how could they be otherwise, really?
They're different angles of perspective on this concern of an amnesis and of devotion to origin and communion. An amnesis. Unforgetting.
And often we start out with a toy and we play with a toy before we engage later in life with that which the toy represents.
Whatever the truth of our origin and the nature of divinity may be like or may be becoming,
we always have within us that directionality, that felt sense of, ah, this is like unforgetting.
When I kiss her, I am unforgetting. When I care for the elderly person or the injured person or creature or place, I am unforgetting.
Not because I'm thinking that, but because I'm feeling it.
And so it occurred to me that the direction toward an amnesis is foundational to our path finding in life and thought and feeling and concern.
In another part of the conversation, I was talking about how there's an aspect of me that's entirely blind to all my senses.
It feels with a kind of living blindness, childlike, but unimaginably sensitive.
And I remember, or rather I imagine, the first time my eyes saw sunlight or the moon, the first time I touched my mother from outside her body,
the first time a girl kissed me in the erotic way, that first moment of our tongues touching and how blind, how like an infant inside myself, I was.
And I trust this aspect. I trust my soul, adore my soul precisely because it's not merely blind to all the distractions and noise of the human world, society and culture and so on.
It's never fooled by them. This blindness I speak of is a form of seeing beyond all possible sensing.
Extending from the beginning of the universe to the end of the universe, all at once in every moment.
And while it might appear delicate and fragile and unimaginable if we were to suddenly be capable of recognizing it, seeing it in some way,
its power supersedes all possible aggression or audacity.
And this was another branch of our discussion last night that there are forms of humility and altruism so beautiful,
that no power can stand against them.
And part of the reason this is true is because communion has precedence to distinction.
And this aspect of ourselves that sees and knows and feels in blindness and vulnerability without a voice to speak with,
it's older than anything else and all other things are really, in a sense, children of it,
but also prostheses devised by shunting some of its light into a particular form and then conserving that form, propagating that form, popularizing that form and so on.
And so if it's, you know, I don't think of it as in battle but if we were to use this trope, it's in combat with something like its own skeletal remains.
But it comes before them and it is their origin so when it meets them they can't defeat it and in fact most often they'll simply recognize their own origin.
Although this works out differently depending on how deep the situation is, in superficial layers combat may well ensue because the skeletal remains wants to live and dominate and propagate pretty much at any cost, including the cost of its own destruction.
And we can see this propensity in much of how the humans relate with each other and nature.
Just then as I was saying that there was a car accident, I could hear it some ways away.
If we think rationally, surely we will think something like, well if someone threatens you with a weapon you'd better overcome them.
My father grew up in Brooklyn in the 50's and he had to fight all the time. He was kind of a small guy and he was a pretty sensitive guy but he became quite tough over time.
And you know back then the prevailing wisdom was and still is in the testosterone-fueled masculinization, who knows maybe it's half estrogen-fueled I'm not sure.
But it's still a common idea today that if anyone disrespects you, you'd better step to them right now, get the first punch in.
The first contender on the field has an advantage.
So it really depends on how you look at it and why you're looking.
But this is what most boys are, this is a common imprinting script that's used with males and sometimes with females.
Perhaps a bit less often.
And in the world of fighting, there's some wisdom there but my father thought that I was too sensitive and I think he was concerned actually that I was so feminine in my heart so to speak.
Again these are, this language is traditional from times in our culture that are different from this time now but in their time these ideas were widely held.
And so I think you know my father, I remember when my sister was studying ballet and I said you know I want to do ballet too.
My dad was like nah, we're not having that.
And I feel pretty sure that he had some concern that I might be homosexual and it's not clear whether, well first of all I think back then he was pretty homophobic.
It's probably much less so now.
I never really was either homosexual or homophobic.
But he was concerned because he knew that you know if it turned out that I was gay, I'd be facing ten times the struggle I'd face as just a sensitive, you know.
I don't like the modern language tropes.
A sensitive man who prefers women as romantic partners.
Or who only sees women as romantic partners.
Except even that's not entirely true because some of the deepest romances I've had, whether they weren't sexual, were with my closest male friends.
I've had a couple of really intense relationships that were actually like marriages.
And when they you know dissolved, I had roles in that, it was very painful.
At least as painful as the loss of a romantic relationship.
So I think there's relational eros as well as romantic eros.
And both are very powerful.
But I brought this up because my father wanted me to fight.
And I didn't get picked on very much, a little bit.
But he wanted me to fight and I didn't want to fight.
And what he didn't realize was that there are other options.
In many situations where someone was intending to fight me.
I just became very soft and vulnerable and asked them gentle questions and let them know that I'm not going to fight them.
And there were other features of my way of being with other children and in the world that protected me from violence.
Not entirely, but much more than my father ever imagined possible.
I think he learned, you know, the old adage, get the first punch in.
Well, if that's your method, if that's the first move you generally have to make,
then you won't discover the other possibilities of avoiding combat.
My old Tai Chi teacher said, Casey Mao, make his soul be blessed.
He said, you want to win a fight?
First of all, don't fight.
Secondly, get out of there, fast.
And thirdly, if you have to and you have no other choice,
if you're intelligent, softness can overcome hardness in the fight itself.
Of course, this is a perspective from the wisdom tradition associated with Tai Chi.
But one of the things he was really clearly saying was,
don't stand there in the crisis and flow with the movement
because if you flow with the movement, you can't be hit.
People can't land a forceful blow on you.
But he was also fundamentally saying, get the fuck out of there.
Like, before things collapse into crisis, get out, leave.
And there have been a number of situations in my life where I naturally got the hell out of there,
much to the confusion of my pursuers.
Of course, there are times when we may not be able to escape or settle things down.
And then, of course, my father's way has some bearing on the situation.
You know, whenever I was in fights, this urge toward an amnesis became very present in my breast.
And I felt a little scared of the person who's threatening me, but also just love.
And how much I don't want to hurt them.
Even if they're angry or I'm angry or they're confused or both confused or something going on.
I don't want to hurt them.
And sometimes when I had to fight, even though I'd not been injured, I'd be crying and crying and crying.
And people would say, what's wrong? What's wrong? Are you hurt? And I'd say, no.
No, I didn't want to hurt them. I didn't want to hurt them.
I had a lucky birth.
As I said before, I was born gentle.
And I've lost a fight or two in my time as well.
And I'm not exactly sure what it means to win a fight, but I know what the common meaning is.
To prevail. To be the one less hurt. To be the last guy standing, this kind of thing.
And I have some friends and family members that are very traditionally macho.
And I have some part of that within me as well.
But it's profoundly tempered by my gentleness.
My impossible urge to do no harm.
First.
And to be of aid if at all possible.
The magnetism of my anemesis, my thirst for unforgetting,
draws me profoundly towards altruism.
And I'd like to undo the harms I've done through ignorance or fear, delusion, anger, confusion.
But even these things that we don't want, they are gateways.
They can be gateways to anemesis. They can become...
It's the strange thing. It's really what use we make of our thought and experience that determines the result.
It's not necessarily the flavor of thought and experience. It's how we use it.
Literally what we make of it. In thought and feeling, awareness and relation.
My old teacher, John Tarrant, Roshi, he's skillful at helping people to see.
But if we want to grow and...unforget...
Struggle and strife and illness and poverty and loss and pain and suffering.
Confusion, anger and fear.
Can be extremely valuable.
And it's easy to even pragmatically see why this is so.
In a life of comfort, in a life of safety, inside the box, protected from everything, just about, except time and isolation, loneliness.
In comfort, why shall we strive?
Hmm.
I've often heard some of my Blackfoot friends talk about how the sun sends us challenges.
Because without these challenges, we would not develop.
And this doesn't mean when I say these kinds of things, that I don't deeply feel with and for myself and others when they're frightened or suffering or alone or injured or sick or dying.
Of course I feel with them.
I certainly don't sit back thinking something like, oh, these are the challenges that are drawing you into transformation, perhaps awakening.
You know, maybe in the back of my mind I have some idea like this and I might, if it seems appropriate, I might mention it.
But, no, I feel deep compassion for myself and others who are suffering.
I don't just think, oh, these are the good challenges.
But I'm also aware, at the same time, that in my own life and in the lives of others that I love, it's the challenges, you know, when we're in jeopardy.
It's harder to be lazy, right?
Not impossible, but it's harder to be lazy.
We're much more likely to find within us the traces of our original light, our soul, and draw them into embodiment in our actions and relationships and learning.
The blind one who sees what the sighted cannot see.
The one who is so humble and altruistic that the warrior's arm loses its strength when facing him or her or them.
There's something profound and beautiful here.
And I trust it, when I trust it.
I don't trust it abstractly, I don't trust it as an idea.
I trust it when I've become it.
And I'm sensing it.
And I'm sensing as my heart, as my soul.
And in reflecting on these things, we nourish them.
If our reflections are oriented in such a way that we're not all up in our heads about it,
rather we're in a context that protects and nurtures and recognizes the sensitivities and vulnerabilities of our secret interiority, the invisibles.
And thus creates a context where it's safe for them to emerge into awareness and become embodied and participated.
And in our common lives such things seem rare, though each person's life is unique and in some people's lives perhaps it is common.
And it's even possible to find a way or to make a way that we can embody our interiority safely, creatively, beautifully, harmoniously.
And even though the world can be understood as its enemy, that's not the only thing going on.
Because everything, every being, every place, every moment, every context, traces its emergence back to origins.
And those origins are in communion. Those origins are in unity.
So if we're inspired and a little bit courageous, we conform these contexts together
and retract the veils and bathe in the light that reassuring beautiful transcendental light of an amnesis.
Together. With and for each other and all beings.
Thank you for joining me. I look forward to learning together again very soon.
