So, on Facebook and stuff, all of them don't use their own names.
Right, why would you use your own name?
It doesn't make any sense, for most purposes.
It's dangerous.
Darren, were you in the Internet when there wasn't any web and stuff that was just mailing lists?
I'm a computer technician.
I've been working with computers since 1981.
I have done some programming.
I watched the birth of the Internet.
A long ago, in the beginning, we used to have what were called bulletin board systems.
Yes, BBS is, you dial up with it.
You'd have a 1200 or 2400 bot modem.
You'd dial up with a modem.
You'd have some sort of a validation exchange with the server.
And then, you were a user on a BBS.
Most of those were used for sharing cultural objects.
Art, porn, computer programs, games, particularly, media.
Why I asked, Darren, I was trying to get all of this, the early days of the Internet,
and pretty much, there wasn't any pseudonyms in the mailing list.
And maybe the soft culture.
Wait, are you sure?
In what BBSs were, was it not pseudonymous?
Because you had user names.
Yeah, BBSs had user names.
Oh, in the beginning of the Internet.
Yeah.
Oh, yes.
Mostly true.
Campus background, maybe because of the economic background, perhaps.
Because at that time, I was working for a company, IP shop in Toronto.
And I saw the value of us being able to recognize this guy.
And I was like, oh, you didn't see.
You know?
Yes, yes.
In a trustworthy situation, well, you'd still probably want the option of pseudonyms.
But in a trustworthy situation, you'd use your primary name.
Yep.
I imagine.
Although, with Indigenous cultures, I didn't have names like Bob or Tony.
And their names would change under certain conditions.
It seems to me.
Like if you marry into a new, yeah, there's lots of conditions that would change your name.
And why do you mention it?
So, okay, let me make sure I'm hearing you.
So you're saying something like, I remember conditions under which it was very useful to know
precisely who I'm speaking to, no masquerading.
Were you saying something like that?
Going to the heart of the matter, just like you said.
The speaker should not be split from the speech stage value.
Right, yeah.
Yeah, I mean, on the other hand, there's 10 different people inside me.
And it's not because I'm schizophrenic.
I'm human.
So now what?
Must all of them bear the responsibility for the voice of any of them?
Well, I don't know.
I'm not saying yes or no.
I'm just saying.
It's a complicated question, right?
Like I want to actually entertain the question.
Yeah, yeah.
I think one of these is for enough, for some, for enough things, maybe all, you know what,
maybe at the ethical things, we want to, the issue is where do we want accountability?
And where do we want this?
And I would say that
most of the time when we want accountability,
something has gone really badly wrong already.
Right, like, yeah, by the time we need accountability, relational intimacy is broken down dramatically.
Why don't you want the exploratory and why do you want them to wait till they are sure
before they open their mouth?
Why don't you want them to come in to the intonations?
Then why don't you have language that explicitly allows, enables that?
Yes, yes.
The worst thing, it's not the old, this isn't the only truth, but a fundamental principle is like,
once human cognition becomes oriented toward indicting someone or something,
it breaks down.
It's no longer very intelligent.
It's making a mess.
Vulnerability of the space, the spacemen allow for a lot of vulnerability.
Yes, yes, yes.
I mean, that's more brilliant than what I would say.
That's really brilliant what you're saying there.
You're saying it's crucial that we allow the play, the natural play of explorative learning
and discovery and making mistakes and getting it wrong.
And all kinds of other things that disappear once.
It should be children ready.
What a brilliant thing, you buy it with your expansion, you made it for me.
Darren, when you said that.
Yeah, it was you, the brilliant one.
You were the one who said this first.
I only tried to see what you were saying.
I was like, no, he's saying something even more radical than what you're saying, Darren.
What I was saying was, by the time you're interested in indictment,
you've lost most of your intelligence.
And I find this to be true of myself.
But you said something crazier.
You were like, in an actually trusted relational context, the free play of mistake
doesn't lead and experiment and discovery and learning doesn't lead to judgment.
It leads to mutual benefit or something like this.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, that's crazy.
You're not allowed to say that.
Who told you you could say things like that?
You mustn't go around saying things like that.
The humans will get ideas.
So that's it, you know, like, what are you doing?
Yeah.
Basically, hey there, right?
Play essentially allow the kids to teach you.
Yes.
Hey, this is how we do it.
This is how we dig a hole or how we catch a tadpole.
Come, you know, teachers have been stopping us.
And we, you go inside there and say, you can laugh or whatever the teacher has been.
Can you give us a break?
I mean, kind of like, ah, you make the club something, you know, distract her
while you go back to learning from the kids.
And then maybe producing some outcomes and make the tea that the old school teacher happy to.
Yes, exactly.
Right.
Yeah, you can please the old guard and innovate at the same time.
Right.
Doesn't have to be pure rebellion.
Right.
Yeah, you can please, you can please tradition and still innovate.
Yep.
Yep.
And so long as you're becoming patient, you're persistent,
it should yield a better, the better result, the better outcome for everybody.
No, absolutely.
Yes, patience.
Yeah.
This doesn't have to be done in the next 10 seconds.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
That would work.
Yeah.
That would work.
Right.
Because the kids are smart too, you know, and they're kind of like forced to
accept the status quo and the teachers to like finding maybe too difficult
because they're all busy to too much of an accent to how they have to do this.
Kind of the modern world results in the too many little details, too many chores in a way.
Do you sense that?
Do you sense that is part of the reason why the change is slow and all doesn't happen?
No, the problem is worse.
The problem is that the new teachers should be free to grow along with the children
instead of to dictate the direction of growth to the children.
And they know nothing but to dictate.
That's it, you know.
They're trained to dictate.
In English, I make a joke about this.
I'm like, it's like a person holding a hard penis and they keep pointing it at you.
They're dictating.
I know it's a very crude joke, but yeah, in English, that's a reasonable pun.
And it makes sense.
It's like they're hitting you over the head with the hardened member of authority.
No one likes that.
And it's a shitty job.
Like no teacher would want.
No teacher would ever act that way or want that if they were having the experience of
learning and growing with the children and there and nobody's going to tell me that we
can't produce that.
We got the teacher on site.
We got the kids on site.
You got them together.
You should be able to pull off miracles.
It might take you a little while to figure out how, but don't tell me you can't.
I've seen it done.
I've participated in it in schools where I had a teacher who was like,
we're going to take the one kid in this class you can't write at all.
And we're going to get that kid writing essays that are powerful and blow people away.
I mean, here's a secret that'll blow your mind.
In 1990, or something, no way, two probably, I took an English class.
I hadn't been in school since I was 12.
I never went to high school.
I'm a self-educated person.
I took an English class because I'm a writer.
And the teacher asked me to teach the class for them next semester, so I did.
And what I discovered was pretty amazing.
So there were about 90 kids.
They ranged in age from 16 to 26.
We had three classes of about 30 kids apiece.
They were mostly upper middle class white kids.
Most of them were like B, B plus average coming into junior college from high school.
Okay.
Of those 90 American kids in a wealthy suburban town,
four of them could reasonably produce a written sentence in their only language.
And two of them could compose a paragraph.
Wow.
Now, those kids sucked at understanding the old or speaking or writing, the only language they speak.
They were abysmal at it.
And I was blown away because I was, I'm hyperlexic.
I have a natural affine relationship with language, and particularly English.
I've been that way since I was very little.
So for me, this was staggering and shocking.
I was like, I expected them to have more education than I had, and they had catastrophically less education than I had.
Though they had been, right, they had been in school an additional six years compared to me.
And kind of like, you know, somewhat role model parents too, yeah?
