you know, because part of that was the American equivalent of you being a sadu, you know, of you
being like, you know, that's funny. Yeah, I got you. Right. Yeah. That's a hilarious way of saying it.
Like you're, you're a, yeah, it's the American version of you're a holy man or something.
Oh, no, you have faith in nature. Oh, you have faith. I see. I see that. Come on, don't be
Yeah, that's what I had actually. That is what I had back then in a way.
I had faith that it was possible to be myself without a house, without a roof,
without money, without food, with nothing. I knew that, you know, money would be an issue. So I had
to watch out and, you know, you know, in our places we stopped and anyway, we made it because
we could get jobs in some places and, oh yeah, a little short term jobs, especially in Boulder,
Colorado, right? I remember in 4th of July, around about 4th of July, I was there, it was snowing,
right? In Boulder, Colorado, then, you know, it was a bit of a surprise, but that was a good
climate. I mean, they had a, you know, like a job placement for tramps and hobos, you know,
but because I was with this guy called Bernie, Bernie McBug, forget his last name now. Well,
Bernie McGraw, yeah, Bernie McGraw, yeah. So he knew the ins and outs, you know, where you go and
get food stamps and where you get your jobs, right, and stuff like that. So I went rather quickly,
got a, after 4 days, I got a job as a dishwasher in Boulder, right? And that was, you know, that
was fun. And the pay you get compared to what you need is like a great, because it was staying in
like a, ah, in Boulder, after a while, was staying in like an abandoned house in the
edge of a river, kind of like in a forest, right? So we had sleeping bags and stuff like, rather
winter proof sleeping bags, so managed, that was good, you know, there were other people, later we
got, we met some people and we lived in the house for a while. Very liberal, I mean, very
truly liberal place Boulder was when I was there, you know. Oh yeah. Very, very generous, you know.
The first day I remember to burn, I remember to, Darren, I must tell you this, right?
I already, I had rather little money, like $25 or something like that, and I had a camera and
stuff. And my buddy was hitchhiking with me, he said, Bala, let me borrow your camera, okay.
And then he goes and fonts in fucking, you know, he's a whole, and so because of that,
that, I remember that one, that day, I had no more money. I had no more money and I didn't have a
camera. And I was like, hmm, how am I going to solve this? Well, this is this, I've got to,
I've got to learn this, and I've got to learn how to be without any money. So I walk along
at the street, Pearl Street in Boulder, you know, it's a downtown one street that is
walk only, no cars, right? So anyway, walk and I just signboard, right, on the side of a building.
And he said, Naropa Buddhist Institute.
Me, you know, wow, this is like, next to bumfuck US, you know, because I've been in Kansas,
because it's like, up, I mean, so I'm not even Kansas City, Salina, Kansas by the highway.
This is like, for me, it's like, nowhere. And how come it's got a Buddhist Institute? This is my
thing. This, this is my, you know, like, my culture, the culture. Yeah. In the middle of America,
so I said, I have to go upstairs. So I go up and I see, you know, there's two guys and stuff.
And I strike a conversation and they're so wonderful. They offered, you know, one of the guys
offered his place for me to stay in because his buddy was had gone off somewhere. So those,
they can see, so come and stay with me and stay at my place. And it was great, you know. Beautiful.
All the whole thing was beautiful. And Seattle, my last stop was fantastic. You know, after,
by the time I reached to like Seattle and stuff, I'm on my own. But I was walking, you know, I
get, I was walking and this guy in a pickup truck, you know, comes past me, stops, winds his window
down, looks at me and says, are you going somewhere? And I, can I take you? I was like, wow, because
you know, they were, they could see me. And I'm like, wow, it was great. It was because I,
I, to me, the folks then in Seattle were like a great above the rest of the world. They were like
really friendly to hikers. It is actually, okay, there is something weird about
how to put this. So I have not traveled much. I've mostly only been in Central and Northern
California throughout my entire life. I've been basically nowhere. But a couple times I traveled,
a couple times I traveled a little bit. And I went, for example, to Oregon or Washington State.
And I don't know, I think, I think that because I'm not well traveled, I probably have a
a distorted sense. But the people in Oregon were very different. The people in Washington were
very different. It may be that it does actually seem to me that places have something that resembles
the personality and that the humans in those places reflect that. Does that make any sense?
Yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, the outside is something like that.
I mean, I could, yeah, yeah, because the man made pretty much, you know, I always say this,
I know this quite well, because I go to India often on, I've gone to India quite a lot. And
they're forever complaining about the outside, no place to dirty and this and this. Let's say it's
a manifestation of the sum of the minds, you know, in Chennai. It's true. Yeah, I mean,
in Hindu culture, there are words for these things. In English, there are not.
In Sanskrit, there are words for these, these matters, right? You have a culture that's like,
I don't know, 8,000 years older than ours. And the white people think they're intelligent.
What? You guys even, like, you guys are playing with Play-Doh or something works, you know.
My son, he studies Advaita Vedanta. And I know there are words for all of these, like,
in Sanskrit and in Indian philosophy, there are, there's very complex, sophisticated language
about all the different features of, you know, anything you might want to refer to in consciousness
at all. It's very interesting compared to how it is in English. It's so much richer and more
intelligent in some ways. You remind me of one thing. I was talking to another buddy who might
join us, who's a good candidate to join our team. I must ask you to hold. I'm getting an important
call. Okay. Oh, it's too late. I missed it. It's all right. Okay. Oh, I see. I see. Okay.
Okay. Maybe I'll talk about that. And we'll, we can continue another day, right? We've been
long enough. There's a word there. And, you know, the word we are looking for is like
sensibility, meaning, you know, the, what is it that we're looking? What is it that we're trying
to get artificial intelligence to do? Intelligence. What is intelligence? You know, acumen, you know,
but they seem that the Western world seems to not want to talk about the world, the word,
which is even more clear in Indian language and Tamil and some of our local languages. It's called
Bhutti. Bhutti, yeah. Bhutti, yeah. You know, Buddha's name comes from that. Buddha is not his name,
you know, but they call it like Mr. Sensible. Yeah. Yeah. So, what I see, I want to talk to you.
I mean, one word in English is equanimity. Oh, equanimity, is it? Yeah, it means not biased. You
don't, you don't collapse into extremity. You're balanced. Oh, yes. That says that. You're balanced.
Yeah. What the, I guess, what, to me, why the Western world, my trip over it is, when we talk
about sensibility and in the context, they are thinking of cognition. The world, I mean, like
such a, I mean, the Western world, when it talks about AI, it's like forever going into cognition.
And we are saying, no, the body and the mind must be both taken into account in realizing
what is the right sensible thing to see sensible or the right thing to do, which is,
which we will say is a sensible thing to do. The sensible thing to do
includes what your body means, which means instinct, right? What your instinctive reactions are,
like, because you're dealing with, for example, indigenous people, and pretty much they're running
on instinct, you know, we don't know about what cognition they have or they don't have. It doesn't
matter. They're functional people on instinct. So sensibility, the word sense, immediately implies,
you know, the five senses, for example, right? It does, yeah. More cognition. Why
had it occurred to you or does it occur to you? Why, why does the Western world not talk about
sensibility? Does someone, the question is very, the question is very broad.
Meaning, like, say, when in the AI circles and stuff, right, when you're talking about ethics
and whatever, why not say, hey, well, which of these LLMs is more sensible, takes into
own sensibility, which is different from intelligence. And I think enough people would know
that, yeah, because intelligence immediately, in a big way, kind of like,
in a slide or other, leans towards academia, you know, leans towards...
It does, but the common humans have no...
They are missing what you have. They are missing the experience of coherent daily life,
that most of whose rules don't need to be written or declared.
So what they have is something really weird. They have a thing where
all the rules are written and declared. And you have to either obey the ignorant of
or reject them. And one of the reasons why Trump is about to get elected in this country is because
the rejection crowd is really pissy at this point in history.
Everybody, all the males, all the ignorant, poorly educated males who have no fucking...
No clue about what it means to be human and yet are anyway.
They want somebody who gets away with breaking the rules and they will elect that guy if we don't,
you know, if something doesn't stop them.
And the guy...
So he's the opposite of sensibility, but he masquerades as sensible, right?
I saw some advertising with him.
Between masquerading as sensible and having to be sensible to get elected and stay there
in a way from the other prejudice.
You're not going to get elected if you're sensible.
There's no chance of that happening.
Yeah, that's... No, that's not going to happen.
You get elected not... Okay, in America, you get elected not because you're sensible,
you get elected because you're sensational.
It's a society of spectacles, right? The better your spectacle, the better the brand of spectacle
that you produce, the more likely you are to be elected.
That's sick. That's sad. I mean, and it's screwed that up so bad.
I mean, like, okay, here, let me ask you this.
Kamala Harris should not be there, should not be up there, should she?
I don't know. How would I tell? I mean, supposing I really cared, right?
How would I make the determination? Do I want a pissed-off, parapheminist
having a voice in the government? Yeah, I probably do. Her particularly, I'm not sure.
I mean, like a fly on the wall, you know what I'm saying?
I don't know Kamala Harris's talk very much. Maybe I'm actually thinking of AOC
when you said her name. At least AOC is, you know, I mean, like she's...
She's smart. Yeah, I mean...
Yeah, smart.
She, I mean, she knows how to get attention and it's not just...
She used to be good, but I think she's going downhill, right?
By the way, I've spent about 27 minutes of my life listening to politicians in 2020x.
That's something I mostly just ignore to be clear and also to be clear for posterity,
if anyone listens to this. I'm not well educated.
Okay, so and you're able to, I guess, for whatever you do, it doesn't affect you too much
or you find spots where you're not affected by, you know, you operate?
I have a simple principle at this accelerated age that I'm at. I'm almost 60, not a kid anymore.
The simple principle is try not to actively import suffering from outside.
So the news is basically all about importing suffering.
So I mostly buffer that off. I may glance at it, but I don't take it seriously,
and I rarely reflect on it.
It's mostly just me taking the temperature of modernity.
Is the apocalypse likely to happen today or next week?
Do you pay much attention to news? What's your relationship with it like?
Not much. I mean, I pay attention to the news in the last five, ten years.
Yes. Some areas I'm a bit interested in are more like world issues.
Well, I mean, like, say, India, ways, Russia, ways of hitting China to some extent.
Of course.
In a way, I want to get a, for orientation, right?
Yes.
And then being a bit more attentive, I'm still more, I would read news that touches on our area.
You know, like what I'm talking to you about, you know, getting funding, you know,
or if it's not funding, how do I go to the next step, right, from where I am?
And the next step in your village becoming a voice and making connections?
The next step in what?
And me finding a way to self-sustain it, so to fund it, you know, like when I sent you
the link to, we move us or we found us or whatever, right?
Basically, align with people who would invest in us or finance us or help us out, you know,
because we've got enough, if we have a team, enough of us have to be paid, right?
Ah, yes.
Yeah, such as the world.
So where can you get funding and who funds them and what are the requirements and
who has been successful?
That kind of news, right?
I keep up.
And then over and above that, when you see me writing, most of my writing is under,
the substrate of it is, how do we, why can't we be the same state, you know,
developed, it's called developed, why can't we be the same state, high state we were 500 or 600
years ago, right, in my neck of the woods?
And in particular, like I was saying, the villages, yeah, why?
Yeah.
All of the things, you know, zero crime, embodied currency, embodied learning, right?
Why can't we have that?
It's like, why can't we have what I had from zero to seven with an unconditional love mother,
with the high, right?
I can go and sleep and I want kids and I want my, I want the work of hundreds of generations
of my forefathers to continue instead of it going so downhill in one generation.
It has gone downhill too.
Everybody is doing it, meaning you go around with a felicit of doing crime and whatever,
just casually.
And you have some, hey, what the hell are you doing?
And they say, hey, you can't, you don't do it.
Everybody's doing it.
And I said, no, not everybody's doing it.
I'm not doing it.
Come on, you know, like for example, a lawyer, right?
Who's stealing and cheating and screwing his customer.
Hey, don't have faith in your intellect that you can do something else.
For example, we've stopped, you know, emerging.
We've stopped creating anything new for 600 years.
Why didn't we do part of that?
That needs law too.
Only, I mean, the young kids, the younger people are a bit ready to listen to that.
The folks who are the lawyers and stuff, big names.
No, they're not interested in that.
They want to screw the system.
Bloody hell, I'm so, but I guess they're not born in the kind of
