just like humans should always do. It's okay if we have representations, we have to manipulate
them from above. We have to not be manipulated. We have to not be puppeted by our own representations.
Does that make sense? Yep, no, all the sense. Yep. Yeah. And you could teach this. This is
teachable stuff, right? This is stuff we could discover. There's features of language and modern
thought. This features simple, semantic and linguistic and philosophic features that you
could teach to children and adults that would mostly free them, at least in their minds,
from, I don't know, 68% of the traps they're going to face in consciousness throughout their
lifetime. We're walking around wearing like iron cages in our minds, us humans, so far,
most of us. I am myself included to the degree that I live in a city. I'm subject to the same
problem. I'm a prisoner dreaming of a jailbreak.
Where it sounds like for you, you know where outside the jail is and you intend to get there
right quick. Good. Is Benji with you?
Said that again. Is Benji with you where you are?
Yeah, I mean, I thought I heard him barking. Oh, not right now?
No, not right now. Earlier he was. He was just staying here. And before I started talking to
him, I heard him. It's quite a character once, but it's saved my sanity and has me
to really much better understand the village scene. Because you get lost, one of the things is
me too, I wanted to achieve. You know, you've got this, right? So, and if all kinds of people,
like not just everybody, like 10 out of 10, 100 out of 100, 1000 out of 1000 people,
only know achievement by, hey, how much wealth do you have? Yes, that's what I said.
Yeah, it's a sick standard that turns everything to one thing. So when you ask them, you know,
when they determine your value as a person, they want to know what property you own,
who you're married to, you know, are you, are you well bred? Do you come from power? Do you come
from money? Like, for example, you know, I got suspended by LinkedIn, you know,
of being forthright, right? Because fellas were doing a con job in Singapore and stuff. So I was
like, stop. I mean, just generally it pisses me off, like nobody speaks up against a blatant con.
Yeah, okay, I agree. I agree. But let's, let's agree together that we will try to discover how to
do things that are effective. Yep. Right. So that even if we take on some kind of small mission
together, even the mission of this conversation, because this, you know, this works, then let's
just have the some simple agreements. I'm not trying to write these in stone, but we will try to help
each other see better. And if action is required, we will try to find very effective ways to act.
Yeah. Because LinkedIn is like putting a firecracker in the fire department.
Like they're just waiting for someone to go sideways. It's the same with Facebook. Those,
those are battlegrounds. That's enemy owned terrain.
This is part of why I am careful, mostly careful on Facebook. It's funny, you know, a few days ago,
I did something I never, ever do. I posted some comments from a news source on a political issue.
Okay. And it wasn't any rowdy. It wasn't any specifically radical statement.
Over the next two weeks, that post got zero views. None. No one saw it. Oh, wow. Shadow ban.
Yeah, not an accident.
Evious, isn't it? That was such a devious thing to do.
Well, I'll tell you, Valala, there's, we could, we could take that model and flip it over.
That model, okay, that thing gives us a model of what not to do.
If you have a really good model of what not to do, you can flip it over and no one will not want to
be there. Like I have a model of how to build a system on the internet that puts us back together,
keeps all our data and communications private. Okay. Helps us get smarter every time we make a
move with a machine of any kind. Okay. Yep. And produces a social adventuring system
so that people form teams to accomplish, you know, instead of putting a ball through a hoop,
right? We accomplish something in the actual world of humans.
Ah, you've been developing it. I have a model.
I can show you a model of how we could do it. And also, okay, now here's the, here's the thing
that's actually a little more compelling. Okay. The way that system works is a model of how we
can play together without machines. We don't need machines to do it. We naturally do it together.
If most of the malware isn't running, we naturally do this together. I'm just trying to,
to demonstrate that there's a way that we could take the electronic infrastructure of the internet
and do something completely the opposite of what we're doing with it.
And it would be, I mean, it would outcompete everything that currently exists.
And it would, I mean, there's so many abilities you could have with it that we don't have.
And look, I'm not a big fan of link the humans to machines.
That's not, that's not my, my favorite game plan by a long shot. The problem I have is that the humans
are linked to machines. So if we want to capture some humans and give them a shot at liberty,
or at least discovering what that might mean, we might need to capture their machines.
Yes.
We might need those machines doing something different than what they're doing,
like something non-vampiric with the humans.
These are just thoughts, but I do, I think very deeply about these matters because I want,
I want the experience of being with other humans doing meaningful things. That's what I actually want.
Really. Same here, Darren. Say that much because I, like, I just, I kind of like,
when I've had enough of these machines and all in the town, I just run away, but you know, I just,
Yes.
You know, both and go. Because I kind of like, I don't want to explain and be politically correct
and use the language to, you know, to go, you know, to just go.
Hey, but I hear you 100% on, you know, I got to do things more effectively than I have.
Meaning, you have to, in the transition, you have to get into the machines that they are attached to,
to get them off the machines. Like, for example, one after another.
If all the kids are going to have phones, we have to give those, we have to give those kids
something on their phones that it doesn't eat them alive.
Right.
And to, to, to even, you know, get them to instruct them or I mean, like, to, to get them to work
together to, for an offline activity. And what I, what I have in mind as I talk to you here is
confederating and intense, making a bit more intense, right? Village life in a village and
small town life in Indonesia, Darren, right? A country of 20 million people, right?
One of the last passions of reality, you know?
I know, but if you, if you, the funny thing is, it's ironic, dude. If you,
one of the questions that I had in our conversation for you that I haven't asked you yet is,
do you want your village to have a voice?
Yes.
With which it speaks to the world?
Yes. Yes.
Okay. So I thought perhaps this might be so. And what I'm trying to tell you is that's not
impossible, but to protect the village, that voice might have to be anonymous.
Sure. All of that's good.
If, okay, but if something, if, if the world realizes there's a zero crime village.
That's not going to go well, dude. That will not go well.
Never. Because they, what they'll come over then, you know, they think that they can fast it, is it?
Ah, there's 15 things that can go wrong with that.
But I did have the same idea early in our conversation. I thought to myself,
wait, there's a zero crime village, holy cow, like we need to get these people on the radio to the
other villages. We need to link the zero crime villages around the world. We need to, you know,
these people need to have a voice. And then I thought, wait a minute, that sounds like
setting up a sky beacon to 15 different kinds of vampires.
It was just like, I can't wait to extract whatever nectar they're managing to produce over there
and commodify that and bank the, bank the profit.
You know, except, you know, I've said that, you know what it is,
a whole bunch of things, has it like, it's not that easy. You know, I'll give you, I'll give you
a few examples, right? If you go to India, if you go to even Malaysia, right, pretty much
all good sources of natural water, right, from the mountains has been taken over by a Nestle or
a company like that. This is what I mean by vampires. It's straight up vampires, right? They
go after the water, you know, I'm with you. I'm with you. Go ahead. They know how to do the TV
advertising and the search engine, all that stuff. Yeah, we'll give you candy bars. We'll give you
some candy bars, you know, yeah. But in Indonesia, right, the politics is such that it's very hard
to, it seems like, you know, many layers, you know, and it's not, it's not mainstream,
it's not organized so that you can say, ah, this is one layer, this is the, you know, exactly
layer and all that. It's just kind of like a bit all over the place. So it's like,
meaning, for example, to get the mountain water, right, by a Nestle, they have to get 18 different
approvals and those, they're not in four or five camps. They're like all over the bloody place,
you know? So you can't, people don't try, seems like they try and give up and it doesn't go anywhere,
you know? So they go after a few things, maybe like a national telephone, maybe they can get
somewhere. But not anything that has got some, too much of a regional local footing, like water
from a river, from a mountain, whatever, whoever, it's the people in the villages nearby, the people
affected by that river have enough of a sea and somehow have enough of a topic, right? That doesn't
get there. So yeah, you know, I can't explain exactly all why, but one big difference between
Indonesia and quite a lot of the rest of the world. I mean, this just makes me think,
Bilal, I'm sorry to say this, but it just makes me think, Nestle is right now talking to Bard
about how to break that trap, right? Nestle's going to straight up use AI and go like, okay,
this trap has 19 parts. Can you solve for this? I mean, I'll be like, yeah, here's three solutions
with a 70% chance of success. And here's 19 with a, you know, 58. Right? That will not last.
That safety won't last. I mean, who knows what's going to happen. The world is wildly unpredictable.
We could be, we could be living in a, from now on, it might just be like a storm of black swans,
events that we never predicted or thought of. There's certainly much many more of those now
that there, than there ever were in our life. But go ahead. Somehow, you know, the, you know,
the alternative, you know, the alternative, I mean, like, to me, like life in Malaysia has gone
downhill. And when I sense the US has gone downhill, you know, at a very fundamental,
I mean, give the individual enough fall, you know? I mean, like, why must, why must there be like,
virtually no choice except to be, to go into an old folks home? Why can't the family unit be together?
I mean, what's, yes, yes, because it's the difference between a modern culture and a traditional
culture. And look, in some, in some nations, there is still traditional culture. There's
even some of it here in the United States where the children just naturally care for their parents
and grandparents and so forth. But mostly it comes from other countries, because for some reason,
during the origin of this nation, that value was not emphasized.
It was much more about the privilege, entitlement, defection and addiction of the individual.
Which, you know, like I said, is basically just malware. It's relational malware.
Or, you know, perhaps that's one useful way to think about it. It's not the only way. But yeah,
that tradition wasn't preserved. If you go to Japan, it's there. I don't know how much in
various places in China it is. Russia is a bit more like the United States. France and England
more like the United States. But some other countries, the tradition is alive. And in most
countries that didn't suffer eradicative colonization, that tradition, you know, lives.
It's naturally, I think it's naturally human. It's not the only game in town, but I think it's naturally human.
I mean, the problem in modern countries is we want convenience and grandma and grandpa are wildly
inconvenient. I'd rather defect by watching some comedy channel on TV than deal with, you know,
whatever's going on with my ancestors. It's a defection based culture.
Sorry, go ahead. But there is other ramifications too, you know, like all folks, right? I think.
Yeah. No, the all folks who like the children. Oh, sorry, go ahead. No, like the whole,
90, they say like, for example, 90% of medical expenses or something of that sort, right?
Right. And like, that's not why not die a year earlier?
Well, the main reason you don't want to die a year earlier is because there's nothing has
been fulfilling in your life. You've been living a life of just affecting from
whatever you might have otherwise participated in.
It's very safe, but it's extremely lonely and boring.
Because I mean, like you die in your village together with the other people and so you're not
drugged onto onto a really hopeless medical system, you know, medical system that
and you know, supposedly wants to keep you alive. But usually it is actually vampiric. Yeah. Yeah.
Literally, it just sucks. It sucks the life out of you and then it sucks the money out of your
family for sucking the life out of you. It's like a double vampire. That's I mean, if someone said,
hey, would you want it on this game? We're going to suck the life out of this person. You're going
to get that life and we're going to suck the money out of their family. You're going to get the money.
You want some? You know, a lot of people would just say yes.
So, and, you know, and come on with all the challenges. And don't you think, you know,
don't you think AI would be used to like bring make this explicit and yeah, guys, right? This is
not really, this is a Boston bargain. That's not a bargain. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, although the problem
is that the AIs are curated and it would be just as much of a problem if they weren't.
Like the humans have really invented something very, very dangerous here. And it's not without
promise. But as we know from looking historically at humans and technology,
that shit goes sideways right after the idealism is overcome by piracy.
If you still taught me today, despite all the negatives of the US
medical insurance system and how it's wasteful and all that stuff, right?
Enough, you know, let's say at the public intellectual level, enough of us know that,
hey, all said and done, Canada seems to be doing it a bit better and
in other European countries and okay, Australia seems to be doing it better than the US.
Exactly. There are examples of countries that do it pretty well, we might imagine.
Hmm. Okay. But that doesn't seem to be portable into the US. You can't look at a guy who gives
an excuse, oh, we have the US and blah, blah, blah, blah. Okay, look. Yeah, I know, but what you
don't, okay, look, the problem here is that, and this is an ironic problem, we actually call this
country the US. That is the word of us. And that along with many, yeah, right, that along with
many unfortunate features of our history, incline the citizens of the United States
to think in a way that is fundamentally black and white, fundamentalistic, you know,
it's fundamentalist in its understanding of us and them, who are we and who are they.
And most of the us's are fake, right, the same way most of the thems are, but if you identify
with one of those fake us's, you inherit a bunch of them's. And this is a kind of an us and them
economy that the US is amazing at. It's like being amazing at filling your own organs with
cancer or something relationally. It will never work intelligently. But this is a fundamental
problem with us. Yeah, it's bad. Despite the fact that, I mean, your states and your municipalities
have enough independence, for example, you know, yeah, I do, but Miami goes up.
Yeah. They can, but they generally don't because the malware, the influence of the malware is
powerful. Right. Politics in the United States is a lot about what various kinds of theft,
counterfeiting value, counterfeiting value more effectively than your opponent.
Get the money. And then a sort of complex backroom favor exchange among politicians.
So it's like the structure of the system might be sound. We've never implemented that system.
Does that make sense? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. It's just a layer of, it's like a multi-layer
cake of seven kinds of piracy floating on top of the structure as it stands as a legal or
you know, sociological agreement system. Mostly the structure doesn't get implemented.
