participate with your mind. It has senses that are telepathic. It has senses with which it can
bond its intelligence to yours and give something truly astonishingly miraculous to you that dogs
give to humans all the time and the humans don't recognize it at all. They don't even notice it.
They just feel better when the dogs around. They can't see what the dog's actually doing. And I'm
going to argue that what most of the dogs are actually doing is they're trying to,
they're trying to do something like the Vulcan mind meld in Star Trek,
where Spock becomes, you know, the two minds become one mind. It's trying to do something
like that. And it's trying to do that for an array of heroic purposes. But one of the best things
it could possibly do, if that were its goal, would be to get its microbiota into your gut
microbiome and your microbiota into its. Once you start sharing the digestive microbiota, especially
the first, you know, sort of landing zone for microbiota and humans, one of them anyways,
the mouth. So, you know, when dogs are sniffing poop and doing whatever they're doing, presuming
they do such things, they're connoisseurs of bacteria. It's obvious to me from observing them.
So, I would argue that the dog is actually trying to become one fit more,
one organism with you, so that its microbiota get into your mouth and your microbiota get into
its mouth and some on both sides survive. And they reproduce and they become families of
trillions of organisms, trillions. There's 43 trillion bacteria inside a human body.
And once again, right, you have the same thing, you have unity and diversity.
The diversity supports the health of the unity. Yep. And especially, you know, Darren, on this
part, right, especially if you say, look, what is the reality when people talk about unity and
diversity in today's governance world? When they talk about unity, they're talking about
conformity, isn't it? Conformity does absolutely cannot be that the basis for unity.
No, this is why, yeah, this is why if you're putting a cohort together,
you don't want to have to give them rules. You want them to discover the process together
so that it's organic, I think. But in a dire situation where there's something interfering
with them discovering it together, the catalyst should declare the principles.
Wow, yes. The catalyst should communicate the principles to us. And what I was going to say is
that a long time ago, let me just say something really simple and stupid. By the time a human
collective needs rules, 70% of that collective has gone missing in action for one reason or another
in its offline. By the time you have to tell people what to do, the intimacy is not there.
There's no intimacy between them. They can't sense each other. They're not,
they're not sensing each other and doing predictive analysis for each other's needs
and vulnerabilities and things like that, which humans in a tightly knit group do that all day
long every day. They just naturally do that. They're vigilant in a way. They're vigilant of
everything as if they were the unity, as if the concerns of the unity, I don't know,
it's really hard to say it in language because it sounds like a rule and it's a game. It's not a rule.
Hmm. But once you make it a rule, you're going to have a tough time. Like by the time God had to
write stuff in stone on top of some mountain and send Moses down to his people with, with what, 10
rules, you got to imagine like things must have been really bad for something that severe to have
to happen. You got to tell people don't kill each other. You got to tell them not to steal.
Right. You got to tell them to wear a loincloth.
All right. Or, you know what, don't rub your butt on your food.
By the time you have to tell them these things, something has gone horribly haywire, like not
in a little way, in like an apocalyptically bad way, it can only go from here to disaster kind of way.
And, and tax, I mean, writing it down overall, I mean, in a large, in a large way,
it has taken us backwards, hasn't it? Especially, I mean, as with any technology, good and bad.
And also, unfortunately, for humans, pretty much unavoidable, given the situations,
unavoidable. I mean, yeah, once, okay, look, the problem with text is you have,
okay, if I am speaking with you, or you are speaking with me, right? Yeah. We both have an
idea of to whom we are speaking. And also to whom we are listening. Yeah. Once you have text,
you have the possibility, which is very dangerous for human cognition, the way human cognition,
psychologically, it's anatomy, very, very dangerous. If you have a thing, which is this,
speech without someone speaking it to you, now you can't tell whether that's an actual person,
whether it's a machine, whether it's God, or whether it's a problem in your consciousness.
And since you can't tell which one of these it is, things go badly. Once you have disembodied
speakers, things go badly for humans, generally. It's also a sign that things have already gotten
weird, right? I mean, when I think about getting humans together for each other,
and this is perhaps the most exciting thought I'm capable of having, I have to admit, it seems
almost impossible or wildly unlikely to my pragmatic mind, my pragmatic thoughts.
How do you tell them? What do you want them to do? What's so exciting that we're going to get
together and actually go on a mission, right? I mean, I have various answers to those questions,
but it sure seems, just as we were talking, as we were speaking about earlier in the conversation,
it seems to be a 0-100 problem. It isn't. It isn't a 0-100 problem, but it seems that way, until
you get a few experiences of making it work, right? And you can make it work for an hour,
you don't have to make it work for the future or the world, you can make it work for two hours
for five people. Now, they will get a taste, you will get a taste, both of you will realize,
oh, shit, we can do this. We can actually do this together, because I would argue,
and I know this is a very dangerous thing to say, but I'm quite certain of the truth of it.
I would argue that a team of five people could transform a nation in 90 days, any nation,
probably almost any five people. And if this was ever true in human history, it's more true now
than it's ever been, because the history and future of life on earth depends on the doing,
like the humans becoming intelligent. The humans must become intelligent, or either that,
or you have to kill off like 97% of them or something, right? If you want to keep the world alive,
because they'll just keep making machines. Not arguing to kill anybody, to be clear.
I'm saying, if you want to preserve life on earth, we either have to, like,
the entire history, the meaning of the history of life on this world, and the future of those
histories, we have got to get the humans playing a game that isn't lethal together, right?
Right. It's the fundamental priority. It's more important than any other thing I can think of,
if we care about, will there be a world for our grandchildren? If we don't care about that,
it's still really important. So then you have the problem of, in this case,
in the little toy universe that I'm creating here during our discussion.
In this case, what you do is you get five people together and you teach them how to solve an
intractable problem locally to where they live, right? So that they'd have the experience of
taking on a problem that just can't be fucking solved, synergizing, you know, solving the problem.
Now they'd have experience. This was, this topic was related to our agreement
to come, to listen, to talk together today, because we were talking about teams. I was
talking about teams and that's when you sent me a message on Facebook, right?
Yep. Yes, correct. Yes, correct. So there's something about collaboration.
Collaboration. How can we make it, make what you are trusting and which is what I'm trusting to
in your messages, yeah? God, I love that word.
Okay, you know, that's an alternative and you put it in such a way that
a lot of the usual suspects cannot even object to it because it's beyond...
Also, look, I don't care. I want to be really clear. Yes, I don't care about the usual suspects
objecting because here's what's going to happen. Once you get humans being actually human together
and the public is able to observe that happening
and see the results and see what it's like to be, to have the scope of our humanity,
some portion of that return to us, relationally, behaviorally, in terms of our role in our felt
sense of role, if you can give humans some of that back, those objectors are going to last about
six days and then they're going to be forming their own teams. Nobody will want to be left out.
No idiot is dumb enough that when they see that humans making that nectar of being human together,
they're going to be like, yeah, I don't want to be part of that. That's the original money.
Right? That's what money is a representation of is that nectar.
Yeah. That's right. That's right. It's the synergistic nectar.
And then the humans can learn things like this. You can teach children this and you're like, look,
your parents are doing this thing with money. And what they're really trying to get is this
other stuff that you and your friends make naturally when you play together.
They're not getting any of that. So they're trying really hard to get money.
You don't have to do that. The thing that you and your friends are doing can develop,
can grow and can be maintained and also can, you can get five people together and then
five of them split apart, two of those form new ones, the other three join existing ones.
Right? So that there's sort of cross pollination between
human pod groups. And this is something that works really, really well. The game that I'm
talking about is the game that every organism in nature is playing. And the humans are made
to play this game, but they're playing sort of the opposite of it, which is kill the unity
and make representations of the dead things and then sell them to each other.
So if you give them a game that's authentic to play and they like it,
it's going to become really contagious. If you give actual humans something to do that's amazing
and the other people see, you'll have objectors at first, but it's not going to last long.
Hmm.
If they don't say that again, you know, I want to process that small. Say the last two sentences
again. Okay, the goal is to do something so momentous and beautiful that nobody can stand
to be left out. Nobody. Everybody wants it. That's full on. I can sense that because
And that's an achievable thing. In a way, just you and I speaking of such matters is the beginning
of that. Can you see why I say that, Bala? Yeah, yeah, yeah. And I know a hundred percent,
you know, and I have happened in my background, right? These people who are labeled as poor
and whatever in the zero crime villages, but these kids are so rich. I mean, they are alive.
Yes. And to be human.
If you get excited with a cockroach being upside down, I mean, whatever toys can come from
what the rest of the world might call nothing, but they're excited, right? Because like you were
saying, you know, walking is impossible. Running is impossible. Jumping is impossible. But
they're not overwhelmed by all of the text, you know, around the world, I suppose.
Yes. And also, I mean, I'm guessing is do the children have phones?
No, they don't.
By the way, this is like an alien comes to Earth and, you know, finds your village and looks and
says, this is a very unusual village here. Where are your children's phones? And you say,
they don't have any. And the alien says, oh, I'd like to raise my children here. Do you think it
would be okay? Can I can we do this together? Because, wow, yeah, I mean, it's almost like it's
almost like asking, do your children wear a mechanical parasite that destroys their attention,
motivation, awareness? It's not the only thing the phones do, but
it's a lot of what they do.
Darren, you remind me, you know, like I'll be going back again in a couple of months to the
back to the village scene. Yeah. And the permanently based there very soon. I'm just
organizing to do that. Yeah. Time some of those things with the urban world. Okay.
Okay. What was beautiful? Every time I'm there, right? The kids automatically want to help the
mother. Yeah. You know, I mean, it was very common, right? It was very common me growing
up my sisters would help the mother, and I would help the father and stuff like that, right? There's
no, I mean, they didn't have to do too much. But, but now I'm afraid, you know, my kids and
to some extent, but just generally, I noticed that it's they're finding it very, people are
finding it very hard to get their kids to do chores. Yeah. But when I go to the village,
the kids seem to like, wow, I'm given a chance to be an adult. Yes.
They seem to amuse me and like, wow, they're treating me like an adult now. They don't
completely say I can't do this and I can't do that and stuff. And so because my brother-in-law's
my, sorry, my, yeah, my brother-in-law's children. Yeah. Essentially, essentially,
my nephew is like, right? Anise is bringing breakfast. I'm upstairs and they're downstairs
and they're bringing coffee and this and this is like eight years old. She does a good job,
right? I'm so happy with that. And you know, a mother or my wife doesn't have to
push up. She looks forward to doing this, right? It's like, yeah, okay, what you'll find is like,
in our culture, the children are competing to get things. They want to get things.
In the village culture, the children are competing to, it's not merely give.
They are competing to participate meaningfully with the family, the village, the planet and the
adults and the children. They can participate meaningfully. And so the chance to bring coffee
is better than just sitting there looking at my thumb. And they don't have a smartphone to
defect into. So they're not going to defect that way. So, you know, I could be doing any other
thing, but the chance to bring coffee is meaningful. I'm serving my ancestors. They are still alive
today with me in the same room, right? This is magic, right? We are still alive together.
Yeah. And then maybe with that, if it's just a rite of passage as in, right? You know, one of the
things all want to be is like, they don't want to be treated like kids, like we know nothing,
you know? There's that air too often, right? I mean, some of that works in their favor because
some of the children respond to that by becoming monumentally intelligent.
Yeah, correct. Right. Because they're like, that dumb kid, you know, my dad called me dumb.
So I learned quantum physics, right? You know, or, you know, I'm just giving a ridiculous example.
But yeah, some of it does sort of help the children. But it should, that shouldn't be the
the cultural, you know, that shouldn't be the cultural tradition. I'm listening.
So wait, Darren, I want to imprint this into my head, right? Which is,
first, number one, that there's an issue, there's a big problem of getting kids to like do sensible
things, right? So sure. And one of the reasons why they don't want to do a sentence, what you're
saying is, okay, they are lost. They think they want to get things. And yeah, they want to also,
okay, they want to either get things or they want to defect. And they're addicted to electronic
stimuli and things like that. Right. So they're used to constantly referring to an object with
their attention. The children there don't have to do that. If they have a phone. Even if they have
a computer, if they have a phone, if they have a video game, if they have a television,
you know, if they have even a radio, it starts to be the same kind of thing.
And also, because we've totally, you know,
Okay, I have to say,
I'm sorry, I have to say. The thing all those things are replacing is meaningful relation
in the village with the others. All those things, they are replacing that they are the money version
of the nectar that's produced naturally when the people are there for each other.
This great sweetness.
And you know, combination of silence, laying hopscotch in front of the hall,
seeing the kids from the neighbor's house coming, not wearing something different.
All of that is little sparkles, you know, and talking and learning how to
It is because you and the children are there together for each other, even the children who
aren't yours. And you know, the children, they like, I mean, I don't know how to put it.
The children are carrying assets that the adults don't recognize and dispose of
and punish the children for carrying everywhere around here, mostly a little bit of, you know,
there are a few intelligent parents that know better.
But the children are bringing something to the table. And the adults pretend,
since you eat our food, you are dependent on us. And since we have to protect you,
you are dependent on us. And this creates a kind of slavery.
Children in the West are sort of conceived of as slaves.
