What gets implemented is piracy and vampirism.
I think Vivek Ramaswamy, you know, was running for a while. And when he articulates it, you can
sense that, for example, you know, you want to, he talks about getting rid of the FBI, right.
Trump couldn't, because Trump was essentially cornered by the civil servants that you can,
there are too many laws that stop you from firing civil servants, right. But
Ramaswamy was saying that that is the case when you're firing individual civil servants.
But if you're having a mass restructuring, you know, the law allows you to do that. And with
the Supreme Court, as it's stated, as it's constituted, because it's got enough of a majority
of Trump appointees or conservatives, right, who are ready for, I mean, who see the sense of,
yeah, the President has the right to restructure the FBI, you know, by executive order, by,
I mean, this guy's, yeah, or possibly even the Constitution. I mean, you know,
Trump is basically, okay, Trump is really dangerous for, in my view, for two reasons.
The first is that he has successfully circumvented regulation in the past.
And the second is that he has, not only does he have no respect for regulation, he's a scoff law,
right. And a scoff law will earn the vote of every male scoff law in the United States,
just for that one reason. And, and, okay, the third thing that's dangerous about him is he has
shown much smarter people what is possible. And what he has shown is possible is as follows,
the United States as a nation can be captured by a single male human being.
He's shown them that. He's basically shined a flashlight on a part of the game,
that nobody really believed was possible. He's doing the impossible. He's going from,
he's going to go from zero to 100. Right. He's going to have a go at the impossible.
And he's old enough that he probably doesn't give much of a shit if he fails. He's got nothing to
lose. Right. It's all anything he gets done is gravy. Right. Like he can do anything that works.
So yeah, this is a dangerous shit. He's shown others who are much more intelligent than him
that the prize can be had. You can take the Virgin home with you, for sure. Right. You can have a
whole family. You know, that whole thing, you can just grab that whole damn thing and one fell
swoop. Right. And here's how you do it. You start with these moves over here. You play some judges
on the Supreme Court, Bing Bang Boom, Casino payoff. Right. That's really dangerous. He's shown
others that it can be done. I mean, he's relatively stupid in my view, or at least he plays that face
really well. But man, what a fucking dangerous idiot. Oh my God. But hey, Darren, when you had
Hillary, you know, running against Hillary Clinton, running against Trump, didn't it occur to you that
my God, the U.S. has failed with these people running for president? I mean, like. That's
brilliantly said. But yeah, no, that that occurred to me some happen. Okay, I'm pretty sure that
that occurred to me when I was six and I watched John F. Kennedy being executed in Texas over and
over again on TV and, you know, juxtaposed with some of his speeches. No, that that dream died in me
a long, long time ago, my friend. I mean, I was born the month after Kennedy was executed. And I've
seen that guy speak. I've never seen anything in politics resembling the appearance of true
human virtue that I saw in him. I note that it's the appearance. I'm not saying the guy was a saint.
I'm saying in a room full of demons, he stood out brightly. And that happened only a couple
times during my lifetime. You know, Carter might not have been a great president, but he wasn't
evil. Yeah, I mean, so to me, like, if you can allow a contest like that, well,
what is your fail and what what what else can expect of a fail system? Apparently,
I think most Americans expect that the failure of the United States has to end with a bunch of
bloodshed and violence, preferably as much as possible, maybe even apocalypse level, right?
If we're going to go out, we're not going to, we're not going to switch to a new system. We're
going to take the planet with us, just like any insane psychopath, you know, would do, right?
We're not going to stop. We're not going to try a new way of doing this. We're going to blow
shit up, you know, because there's a feature in private cognition that can be inflamed enough.
And the human societies resemble the shadow of this problem. So the kid who
all right, I could probably tell you a lot about what happens when some kid picks up an automatic
weapon and goes to a public place and just opens up on the people there. Because what's happening
in that kid's mind is a reflection of what of a feature of our society. And that feature is
I will win whether I deserve to or not. And if I don't win, everybody dies.
There's a feature of private cognition that works that way. There's a feature of our own minds that
works that way, and it gets reflected in the social cognition of modern humans.
And that's the thing that produces, you know, stuff like, I don't know, Hitler, Putin invading
Ukraine. I mean, maybe there's maybe there's stuff I don't know about that move, but that looks,
you know, insane to me from outside. Israel pounding Gaza into dust.
Not dissimilar, except in that case, somebody punched them first or so it seems.
Yep, yep, yep, yep.
I think the people there, just like, I mean, I remember when 9-11 happened in the United
States, I had two thoughts. The first was, oh my God, 15 people just changed the course of the
nation in 12 hours. Wow, I thought it could be done. And then the second was, oh my God,
and then the second was, oh my God, are we in trouble now? We're going to go chasing the wrong,
we're going to go killing the wrong scapegoat for, yeah, we're going to kill the wrong scapegoat.
And that's going to create a future of enmity and hatred,
and blood oaths of vengeance and things like this.
Both thoughts. Now, I'm not an advocate of changing the course of nations with violence.
I want to be very clear about that. But I did notice that a very small group of humans in this
was like the course of, I don't know, 48 hours, they radically altered the course of an entire
nation. That made me realize that the principle was real. A small number of people. I just imagine
the, you know, I'm trying to figure out what's the opposite of a bomb, and how do we make one?
What's the opposite of a bomb? Yeah, yeah, what's the human relational opposite of a bomb,
and how do we make one? I want to make the opposite of a bomb. I want something that
heals things back together explosively and contagiously. It just starts crystallizing the
whole network toward, you know, intelligent unity. I can imagine it. I can see it in my mind. It's
possible. Yes, yes, yes, it's possible. It doesn't occur to me right now, but what occurs to me is
I come across such what appears to be opposites, but they may just be complementary at a level
that, you know, that I'm not familiar with, because it's not discussed enough. I mean,
you and me are like, what you're writing so rare, you know, but it's so appealing, right?
And I would be even better if there were a few more people who could engage at your level so that
there can be interaction on it, you know, not just pedantic interaction as to what do you mean
and what do you mean, but like, you know, people doing their own homework, right? And then reflecting
and then, you know, passing and, you know, weaving. Or actually, you know, or actually initiating
projects. Ah, even better. Fantastic. Like doing stuff together. Yeah, that's what I want to do.
I mean, I'm good at quarreling people together, you know, like a lot of people, because of low
confidence, you know, I like to say, Oh, I don't understand. I don't know where to start. Come,
come, come, you know, because how did this really just look, we can take them to nursery school.
If that's the case, we can do very simple exploratory stuff together so that they get a
taste for the water. We don't have to throw them in the water. They don't have to become,
you know, mercenaries or something. Right. We just introduce them to the water a little bit
at a time and say, Hey, are you comfortable here? Okay, let's go to the next step.
Beautiful. You know, we can learn together how to do this in the same way your mother attended
the mind of your childhood.
Right. We can start out with the presumption that we're all intelligent, playful, creative human
beings together. And then we can just make simple moves, you know, like a kid learning how to stand
up. Right. We can do it. We can do it. It's not hard to do. Humans naturally are good at this.
You can get them doing this kind of thing. I think. Yeah, no, you're right. You're right.
You're right. I mean, I do have a small group I experiment with.
You know, we try some actual stuff. I'm not just talking.
And I'm not, I guess, I'm afraid of being pedantic. I want to be active, not pedantic.
Okay. You, you want to be substantial. I mean, you want to fail. I want to do it.
I never mind. I mean, you know, yeah, let's fail. As long as we're doing something, no problem.
Yeah. That's it. That's it. That's it. And I'm, as you were mentioning it, I was thinking of the
school in my village and the kids and the teachers. I wonder about that. That must be amazing.
What's that like? Have you been in there? Have you been in a classroom? Do you know
how they relate with the children? The, the, the school is not good. The school is not great.
It doesn't open them, but they're not bad compared to other schools as well. They're not too
kind of like a nannish or monitor, you know, like that's very strict. They're not that either.
But on the other hand, they don't, they don't allow for any creativity. They want them to follow
the rules and, you know, and then, yeah, it sounds typically Western.
Or worse. Yeah. Regimented. Yeah. Regimented. So, but when the kids come out of school,
back to their villages and sit back and all that, to me, they're learning a lot when they're playing
and when they are with their families, they're imitating their doubts. They're preparing,
because, you know, parents are preparing to somebody's wedding or feast. They're helping
out and they're watching, watching all people and parents are also going to the, to the plot
of land and, you know, planting rice. They're helping the parents with planting the rice and
turning to the garden and stuff like that. Overall, the apprenticing,
the bigger role for them is not what I go to school and then after school, I'm going to get a job.
No, the bigger thing is like, in the case of the girls, right? Oh, I'll be, I'll be a mother, right?
So, they become good mothers, right? And they become good healers of old taking care of people.
They seem to learn. Yes, because it is traditional to take care of each other.
Yeah. Yeah. Right. So, we, we just need to expand that to, because expand that to, hey,
whether you choose to do it at home or you choose to do a bigger thing, meaning two
villages, right? There's medical things or even computers or all the other things that you need
to do with them in today's world, right? It's not, you'll get bullied by countries that do,
you know, with weapons, right? You've got all, you've got to act together to a level
that you are able to defend yourself too. You make enough, you're productive enough,
like you're making enough returns so that's enough of your people can be soldiers like they were,
like societies were. I know, but now we'll come the malware. I'm afraid once
it's like it comes with the police and the soldiers to have soldiers, you have money problems,
you need money. Now, what will happen to the village? I am afraid. I hear you though,
please continue with your thought. I see. So, good, good. I like your candidness,
because you know what, what it is, when you mentioned that, you know, one thing,
one, I agree, you know, well, pay attention to that, you're right. What do we do about,
how do we anticipate? The other thing that comes to me is, you know,
when the societies were very strong, the villagers didn't have police, but they had
plain clothes, intel, they didn't need any arms to have the strongest villages,
because they were able to anticipate. Some more like, you know, in nature, how is it that there
is quite a lot of law and order in a tropical forest? I mean, we think of.
Actually, there's not law and order. I'm not sure that there's a lot of, well,
maybe I'm not understanding you properly yet. I'm not sure there's a lot of law and order.
There's a lot of non, not defecting, but go ahead. Do you mean law and order between the
insects and the plants and the animals? Do you mean that, that kind of law, or between tribes?
No, I mean, between the 10,000 species.
Oh, yeah. Yeah, I just, I mean, there's something there, but I don't think it's law and order,
it's intimacy. Right. It's one animal in a billion bodies.
Hmm. So they don't defect from intimacy,
therefore no laws are required and there are no orders.
So, you see, like, they can share the same, I mean, like, you have birds, and you have inside,
yes, lizards, and the tree, and they can have, like,
it's kind of like unawaresly, you share the space.
Yes. Yep. But if the lizard gets hungry, the, the insect better move.
If the bird gets hungry, yeah.
All of that. But you know, like, when you're, when you're walking through a forest, whatever,
that seems like a minority, you know, like, the exception is, right?
Yes.
Yeah, they, they, who do you think, and so, but that is not the, that's not,
versus, in the case of human beings, we've made it like the capital issue and it,
it's not just, we've made it, it really is a big deal that we, we've gone downhill, you know.
Yes.
No, we're collapsing toward the worst potentials of our species, rapidly, together.
We're all contributing to this collapse actively, instead of doing any other thing.
And mostly, I think it's because, A, we don't know what to do,
and B, it doesn't pay as well. Thankfully, now I'm old enough, I don't care.
I want to do something meaningful. If I have to pay to do something meaningful, fine, let's go.
You know.
Okay, okay, okay.
Yeah, I want to, I want to run the experiments.
Darren, this model that you have, right, would you, do you think it has to be done in the U.S.,
or it can be done in another country, or it can be done.
It would be very, be very radical to be done somewhere else.
But yeah, it could be done anywhere.
In fact, I argue, I would argue that it's basically what nature usually is up to.
If you just observe nature, she's doing this set of things that humans could do really well
together, and they naturally do it really well together, wherever that isn't captured or interfered
with. Okay, okay, okay.
But yeah, the system, as a system, it could be done anywhere.
It can be done with existing technology. It would change.
I honestly, I don't believe, if we could actually produce what I have in mind,
I don't think governments would last another four years.
We can do something so much better than governments that I'm really shocked.
Nobody's had the idea to do that.
Okay, great, great.
Basically, you can envisage the model that you have in mind, and I can imagine,
the model you have in mind, and within it, teams of five, for example, doing problem solving
and add it together, right?
Yeah, they can synergize with other teams easily.
In fact, they're highly motivated to synergize with other teams.
Essentially, there's a kind of money, which is something more like fulfillment,
that we can pay the humans.
And they can also make money with the analytics they produce,
without those analytics being traced to them personally, so that they can have privacy.
Fantastic, fantastic, because that's what I mean, in like in Indonesia, they like that.
They pretty much want that, because they're not totally free from their
military phobia.
Yes, for good reason.
Eventually, the soldiers will come.
They may not be here today, but someday, they are coming.
Everyone knows this, all the old people know it.
