So, do me the favor of saying your name so that I don't mispronounce it.
Yep, Bala Pillay.
Yes, and I am Darren Stevenson, so we are here in a conversation together that I wanted
to record because it was becoming, as I expected it to, very interesting.
Bala had been discussing something in ideas from a specific person whose name you can
say.
Actually, maybe you could just go over briefly.
Okay, I'll do that.
What I was talking about is the notion of network state, as in any TWORK, second word
state, S-T-A-T-E, network state.
Chapp called Balaji Srimivasan, quite a known personality online, used to be CTO of Coin
based, but he's not just a crypto guy, he happens to know crypto, very well read, history,
background, people.
You could summarize him as a pro-anarchy guy who doesn't take limits of government and
all that as limits.
What the network state means is you can form enough of the ethos and the common, call it
the commonwealth of a group of people online, and then later, enough of the cohorts could
have agreed to where they want to stay and live in a place where they get along.
Where they're physically approximate so that they can collaborate in each other's life
development.
This is much more, it's not impossible to do at a distance, but it's much more difficult.
There are more challenges.
It's a different space of challenge for those who are not proximal, but you said something
that I thought was hilarious, you were like, I'm brilliant, go ahead, you were talking
about somebody buying a house.
The background word is this, I've gone through all those states, what do I mean by all those
states, living, grew up in a semi-rural village where everybody knew everybody and it's a
tropical place so that you're never worried about money because it seemed like food was
available all over the place and you could go and sleep in anybody's house, so what's
your problem?
And then, but my parents have moved from India to Malaysia, my father had gone through the
struggles of life in India and he was continuing it in Malaysia and he was driven to have lots
more money under the pillow, he was just flown into being a stingy guy who saves and saves
and saves and for good reason because of his background, many people after that and the
British rule in India, there were tough times, so in Malaysia it's easier, but he didn't
realise that he was there, so he went on a spree of, so what he would do is buy one property
upon property upon property and including our house itself, what we call the house that
family house, his only concern was what's the replacement, if you buy this house, what's
the replacement value, if I were to sell it, how much money would I get, it didn't care
about much anything else and then me has to pay for that because it has completely broken
up the family, as compared to, now my adopted village Darren, it's a village in Indonesia,
in Java, it's a zero crime village, similar to the kind of village my father was born
in, they didn't live there on age 18 and there the values fit with the village, the people
despite the rest of the world not wanting to have anything to do with zero crime villagers
because it's got consequences, for example, people won't be fronting wealth because they
won't be much wealth, it will be culturally communist, right, but you will not worry about
old age and children being taken care of because the people love to take care of other people,
yes, they are living in a traditional context where everyone takes care, not every single
person, but most of the people take care of each other and they understand, so this changes their
role as a human being, right, transforms their role as a human being from, I am here for me and
mine, or just I am here for me, to, we are here together, for each other, yeah, if you don't
have that, I will argue, if you don't have, we are here together for each other, you don't have
humans yet, you have something weird, it's not human, that's it and I want to stamp it even further,
yeah, by all means, yeah, I mean, I've grown up in like fighting a lot of people, you know,
probably post, you know, post university, even in university didn't occur to me,
many, maybe particularly from the 90s onwards, okay, basically I'm into unconditional love,
that, and I, I'm with again and again, why are you being, I mean, the thing that I find hilarious
about what you said is that linguistically it's backwards, it's not that you're into
unconditional love, it's that you didn't defect from it, all right, like that's the natural position
for human beings, you simply didn't defect, right, in my view, but please continue, I'm with you, yeah,
so exactly because my mother and my, you know, grew up in such a place, so she didn't know anything,
anything else and she went to great lengths, you know, consequences and, but leave all of those
cause, you know, talking to you, one of the greatest things about talking to you Darren is,
you can talk about things that are, you might have, along life taught its age, unconventional,
so kind of like censor that a bit, you know, no, you can do whatever you want, so I love it, you know,
okay, yes, so I loved, you know, my mother was the epitome of unconditional love and I love that,
beautiful, you know, it didn't occur full on to me at that time, right, it occurred enough,
but because it occurred enough as in, you know, when the world became being difficult, there's
one person that you could go to who has got time, patience for you, she'll listen and she won't,
you know, abruptly stop you halfway or say that, that's a silly idea, she will take it that it's
possible that her child may know something that she doesn't, you know, right, and that was so
special, right, in this kind of like cruel world, right, that he has one person that's
extremely beautiful, yes, you know, so I wanted to continue that and I was not going to stop,
agree with anybody who said it's impossible, you know, you can't, and later in life,
of late, I realized, no, they, many who say it's impossible are only saying it because
their, our narrative has so much become zero or 100 binary, it's like, if something is not
exact, you know, it's like, can you guarantee me that 100%, you know, that person who is
in your village, you can have unconditional love, well, the real answer is why do you even,
why can't it be fuzzy at the edges? Say again, even when we do math or graphs,
you know, we cut off the extremes, and that's good enough, if you can manage it 90%, but,
you know, they are outliers, but you don't need to like spend your whole lifetime passing the last
two percent, you know. Okay, you've touched on something, wait, slow down, you've touched on
something I want to highlight, please nurture your line of thought and where you are going so
that you can hold on to it for a second. But I want to say something, the zero 100 thing, so
as children, eventually, we attempt things that are at least initially, they are impossible.
Okay. It is initially impossible for you to stand up. It is initially impossible for you to take a
step. It is initially impossible for you to jump, or run, or walk, or speak, or swim, or hold your
breath underwater, or ride a bicycle, or write language. All of these things start out initially
impossible. And if we evaluate them on the basis that is usually used in our cultures,
pretty much nothing is possible, because you can't, the only things that are possible are
things where you go from zero to 100 in one move. In a single move. Never happened.
So we do have this mindset. And I was reading, I just want to share something from a book called
The Dawn of Everything that I was reading last night. We're talking about
our views of history being wrong. And we basically have two views. It was wonderful.
We all took care of each other. And then we fell from that. Now it's every man for himself.
And there's no way to change it. The best you can hope for is slight adjustments to the tyrannical
nonsense of human society. And I say this. As long ago as 1936, the prehistorian V. Gordon
Child wrote a book called Man Makes Himself. Apart from the sexist language, this is the spirit we
wish to invoke. We are projects of collective self creation. What if we approached human history that
way? What if we treat people from the beginning as imaginative, intelligent, playful creatures who
deserve to be understood as such? What if instead of telling a story about how our species fell from
some idyllic state of equality, we ask how we came to be trapped in such tight conceptual shackles
that we no longer even imagine the possibility of reinventing our societies. They say ourselves,
but what they mean is our societies. We can't imagine it because it seems like it's like a task
like eating the moon or drinking the ocean. So no one imagines that it's only possible.
It's necessary. It's urgent. The entire history and future of life on this planet may depend on the
single, on this single pivot, right? Can humans form intelligent aware collectives with and for
each other and with and for the history and future of life on this planet? Now, of course, we can on
the small scale. We can do it immediately, right? We can do it. You and I are not going to have any
problem doing that right here, right now. We'll be doing that together, right? So it's immediately,
if you just shrink the scale from everything to something, you can do it right now with any few
people who are motivated and sincere. Please continue. Right on, right on. Excellent.
You know, so, so good to hear. So good to hear. And you know,
much of it is self, it's like self-fulfilling prophecy of self-created meaning.
One of my biggest answer backs has worked, right, against this notion is against this notion of
it can't be done. You know, it's impossible. This whole hopelessness is, you know, guys,
if we were living, you know, before the first village, right? And we would never, the first
village would never have happened. You know, like often, I'll see in online forums, Jared,
the ones that use quite a lot in this, the one, the P2P Foundation, right? Quite a lot of people
from around the world. And often the people are so good at nitpicking, right? Right. And I'm like,
by the way, these are people who probably never accomplish anything other than nitpicking, but
go ahead. Yeah, yeah. They're professional nitpickers, right? What do you do for a living? I
sit around on a computer screen and pick nits. So I'm like saying, hey, look, right?
You just imagine, you know, if our ancestors, very little, they made the first village happen.
If they could not get along, right? If they were egotistical, the first village would not have
happened. In all likelihood, it would have taken many attempts for the first village to
happen, you know, to stay and be maintained, continue as a first village. But we know that it
happened. And then it went on to become a small town and those languages. So if those people
can kind of hold their negativity, their pessimism down a bit, right? To let the blossoming,
as the blossoming they see in nature, right, despite all the earthquakes and whatever negative,
you know, there may be, there still is, you know, flowering and blooming and, you know,
joy and aesthetics in nature, right? Why can't we look at the good and ignore the bad,
right? Unless the bad totally, you know, cannot be, right? If the house catches on fire, we'll get
some water. Yeah, right? Yeah, you know, but it's not a matter of, okay, it's not a matter of this.
It's a matter, I think, and by all means, correct me if you see it differently. It's a matter of
the, okay, look, we got two different kinds of options, right? You can put humans together,
you can get them to agree to come together as a group, let's say a small group, seven people, okay?
And you can say again. I said entirely, I mean, nobody would argue against that.
If you said seven people, you know, like, yeah, suddenly they have to, right?
You can get seven people together and tell them either one of two things, okay?
Either you're just going to learn how to get along and help each other
and be for each other and be together as one unit as well as being individuals.
You're either going to learn how to do that, or we're going to give you some principles.
But the fundamental problem is that there has to be a catalyst, right? There has to be a profound
catalyst that makes the people want to be together and to grow together and to learn together. So
either the catalyst, for most people, the catalyst is either the fear of really bad experiences of
being human, or it's the, it's FOMO, it's a version of FOMO. I know that being human can
mean so much more than living in this box and watching television, but I don't know how to get
to that fear of missing out, right? Those are two highly motivated, highly motivating things,
but the third highly motivating thing is a fire, all right? Like the village is on fire, get up,
let's go, all right? Or, you know, in a city, you will see humans form highly effective cooperative
pods, little groups, right? Pods. Spontaneously, if there is a car accident, if there is an
earthquake, right? What will happen if there's an earthquake is you will see three things. The
people who are sort of neutral, they don't know what the fuck to do, so they're kind of milling
about. The people who are acquisitive, these people are looking for opportunities to profit
off the situation. And then people who are, you know, they convert to altruists, right? We're
going to help each other get through this right now.
Hey, power to you. You remind me of something critical I want to ask, and I wanted to ask you.
Let me ask you, Eric, right? Of course.
I keep your talk along, but I want to ask you this. You know, I've gone through a tough life
situation the last few years, right? And one thing you say for me has been a dog named Benji,
right? This is not surprising even slightly. I'm listening. Oh, okay. Yeah, no surprise there.
I want to ask you this one thing, and it goes into the granular of
unity is diversity. It's not, people don't have to riddle themselves with finding,
you know, you can find unity within diversity or allow for diversity within unity.
What you will find, you always find something like your hand, right? Or you have a bunch of unique
members, and there's no problem with the index finger being its own finger, no problem.
But they always work together for each other. And the synergy that the palm, right,
where they come together, the synergy where the palm of the hand is, that stuff is powerful.
In fact, that's the stuff that makes most of the trouble for humans is we're making the bad form
of synergy, right? We're like, Oh, with synergy, you can go faster, you can get more, you can,
you know, you can mutate and propagate wildly if you have synergy. But I'm listening,
I didn't hear your question. You were talking about diversity and unity. Go ahead.
Good, good, good. The small subset within that, okay. With my dog, right, the dog loves to come
and lick the inside of my mouth, right? And, you know, it's a mix between a golden retriever
and a poodle, right? A medium sized dog. Very humanly, I mean, like very into humans.
Yeah, I have no idea what people listening to our conversation will think when you say that,
but keep going because I'm going to go somewhere that I think you're actually going to go to,
but let's see. Anyway, you know, I mean, and I have this overall view that, you know, all
creatures and plants have been made. Maybe we don't know like a pet park, right? We don't know why,
what its ecological reason is, but it's got a reason. So when my dog, when this dog comes and
licks me, wants to, you know, out of his instinct, and he's so determined to like what to do it,
I let him, right? So as time goes on, it's fine, you know, because, right, but now let me go to
the gist I want to get to you. He, you know, we have, I think, much later after the first village,
right, adopted a practice of giving is different from getting and giving can never be as good as
taste satisfying as getting. That is such bullshit, but I understand that that's the tradition. Yes,
go ahead. Okay, but you know, for the dog, it doesn't occur to them. Yeah, you're right.
It's very happy, number one, and it's happy more time, much of its happiness comes from it giving.
It's like instinctively. I mean, I would argue that the dog doesn't even make that distinction.
Yeah, that's it. That's it. It never makes that distinction. It understands receiving,
so to speak, perhaps it differentiates that. I'm not sure, but its body understands the
difference between he's holding a chunk of meat, and he isn't, right? Body understands that. But
the thing about the dog, okay, look, it's doing something crazy. And, you know, this isn't to
suggest that everyone should French kiss their dogs, though, you know, for those of you for whom
it's natural, by all means. I mean, let them, you know, let them lick your mouth. I think many in
the West would consider that disgusting or dangerous or unhealthy because the dog has a lot of germs,
so to speak. But here's the actual thing that's crazy. I will argue something really bizarre
here, and I'll take responsibility for my argument. I will argue that your dog is already,
your dog has senses that sense your mind. Yeah, the same way you can smell the dog,
the dog can smell your mind. Right? Yeah, senses that can sense your mind. It has senses that can
