This is why we send them to school, which is basically a slave making process.
This is why, you know, they go to university and get degrees and so forth to function in
the representational layer of human culture and society, which is, you know, mostly pretty bad.
Mostly different kinds of slavery. The children are meant for something else,
and they can tell the adults are suffering, and they have assets that will ease the suffering
of the adults if they don't eradicate it. The children are carrying something like medicine.
Children are living medicine. The adults are living medicine, especially when they are together
for each other, then they naturally make the medicine together. Does it make sense?
Yes, yes, yes. In this case, medicine isn't like a pharmaceutical. Medicine is
medicine is the food and drink of our soul or our heart. Medicine is what, yeah.
You know, being ready to learn, you know, as opposed to taking for granted that
take the representational layer, sense the wrong signals, you know.
It does. It completely messes up our thought.
Go on. Sorry, Darren.
No, no, please. I'm sorry. Please continue.
Yeah, no, you know, often I'm not able to, it's kind of like, often I'm not able to articulate it,
but I understand, you know.
Okay, the moderns are captured by a layer of processes that they enact as behaviors,
like drive the car to the grocery store, get the groceries, go to the job, get the pay,
take the kid to the doctor, pay the attorney, do the taxes, watch the television show,
mind the smartphone, clean the house, chores, what we would call chores.
But really, those are like, those are all, all those processes are mostly vampiric.
They are extractive. They take something from us and they give us a representation.
Now, we can negotiate that layer very carefully if we're smart, so that we get actually nourishing
food when we go to the grocery store, and we don't get poison, for example, candy bars and whatever.
But the representational layer is powerful. It's well established. It affects everything on earth.
It's lethal. It steals life. You know, it, it's, an actual vampire would be terrified if it saw
the representational layers, relationship with humans, because it would, it would realize that
that must be its God. That must be the God of the vamp. That's what spawns vampires. Vampires come
from that, you know, if there are such things, right? But yes, the medicine that the village
makes together, this medicine is very powerful and it has a unique protective effect. Vampires bounce
off of it. It makes like a shield, right? And so vampirism doesn't get established in the children
or the adults, and they're busy playing every other beautiful game. Everybody will be happy,
even when things are difficult, they're still going to be way happier. Yeah. Everyone will be
taking care of each other. I'm listening. Hey, then one way of like maybe peeling away the
representation layer, just expose it to people. I've tried that. I mean, it works because I,
it's true. To me, it's true. Okay, I'll tell you this, right? Even the people there in the village
and stuff, you know, in central Java, right? It was very famous, you know, spice trade Asia,
emergent people are discovering things and all that stuff, right? From nothing, you know,
village just became better and better, right? As humanity went on, right? But all of that is kind
of like blocked off by modern writing and books and even anthropology and stuff. They don't write
about it that much, because, okay, but okay, this thing I want to tell you. Once I'm in the village,
I realize, you know what? These people are the richest people on planet Earth, even though they
have very little currency. Sorry, there's a lot of currency, but very little money. Yeah.
Why? Why? Yeah, because money, money eats, money eats the spirit of relation between humans.
It does. It destroys that shit. It just eats, it's like pouring acid there to get rid of it,
because now there's a single standard to rule all things. Like the terror in the fantasy story
to Lord of the Rings, one ring to rule them all, is that the ring that rules the seven
elvish magic rings that keep the world alive, the ring that rules them is malignant.
And that's money. The one ring that rules them all in Tolkien's language,
cash is the best metaphor for it around here. It's hard to say, it's hard to say that it isn't
objectively evil, because it's affecting the humans. Okay, look, I could show you so many
features of this. Oh, God, all right. I used to feed some blue jays. I met these blue jays,
I'd bring them peanuts. I took great joy in feeding them. And the male would come to my hand.
He'd land on my hand, take a peanut, female wouldn't.
Okay. For important reasons.
One day the female got angry with me, and I didn't really understand why.
But what I had noticed was this.
The blue jay couple forms a vigilance pair. The girl stays up high.
The boy can go down an adventure. Only when the boy is up high does the girl come down.
Oh, shit, I just realized that. Okay.
So I was interfering in that, and it would have been okay if I'd interfered in it once or twice
a day. But it's not okay if I interfere with it for two hours. And the reason it's not okay
is that they live in the terrain of a pair of Cooper's hawks, and those hawks hunt blue jays.
Oh. All right. So here's what I'm doing. I'm giving them the effect. Okay. Here's why I'm telling
this story. If you put something in front of people or animals that's so compelling
that it not only changes their behavior, it changes what they can be.
All right. It drags what they can be down to fewer, much more explicit things.
All decisions become binary. Identity becomes binary. When I was throwing those peanuts on
the ground for the girl bird, she wouldn't come to my hand. She was having to go to the ground
without radar above her because the male was off stashing the peanut. I'd just given him.
I wasn't paying attention to their vigilance necessities, and I was providing them with a
stimulus that was so compelling that they would break their culture of mutual support.
Right. It would break that culture. Yeah. It's so compelling that their bodies,
it's like putting meat in front of a dog. The body is going to respond.
If you watch, just put like a stack of $100 bills, tie it up with a rubber band,
and put it on a street and watch the humans. It will drag their behavior down to
the most likely. It captures the nervous system. Can you see that? It's a representation
that's powerful enough to completely capture the nervous system of an animal.
And for the blue jays, that's peanuts. And for the humans, that's cash. Or these days, crypto.
Yeah. And overall, it's because, I mean, if they were enough of what I'm saying,
like the zero crime villages, right? Meaning there's... Why do these... Okay. I have to ask you.
I'm sorry, go ahead. If there were enough of the zero crime villages.
Okay. If there was enough of that, and people go and live inside there,
like say, my wife comes from Indonesia too. Despite all the amount of money, quite a lot of
immigrants who come here, who work here, want to stay in Malaysia. They come from around the region,
with much poorer places, maybe like Nepal or... Used to be Thailand, Sri Lanka, country up,
countries that have got constant political problems and stuff. So people really have a tough
time finding a job and stuff like that. When they come here, many of them, they want to stay here
because life is better for them here, right? But this Indonesia, Java, when they come here,
they want to go back. Why do they want to go back? They see their village as the safety,
the security of the village as like a... The nest is too cozy for them to want to trust
anything else. They want to go back, go to the nest. So what I'm saying is, and so it's essentially...
Oh, I see. Wait, their way of life is so familiar that the new way of life, even though it's amazing,
they go back to the old one anyway. Is this what you mean?
Yes. Or do you mean, is that it? It's not just old. It's not just old. At least one thing is
add to the old. Old plus, I won't be sent into an old folks home.
Oh, right.
They just can't... Whatever comfort you may give to them in an old folks home,
they don't want it. They want to be poor with their kids, their grandkids.
They want to care and be cared for by family members who know their idiosyncrasies,
not some institution has. Okay, that was brilliant. Yes, that's very, very true.
I would almost go so far as to say that for most of us, that is a implicit feature of our human
experience is that as we get older, most of us soften and we become vulnerable.
Yes. And loneliness is much more difficult to bear
than it was when we were younger. And we may be infirm and have illnesses and we may need help
with certain things so that if I'm in a house where there's children around, I feel relatively
safe if there's something I can't handle that they can take care of it. Or my brothers and
sisters or, you know, there's family and if there's not family, there's the neighbors and they are
family. The humans naturally do this. They family up unless something gets in between them first.
And one of the main things that gets in between them, at least where I live, is money. The fact
that you guys don't have that. See, in the village, the lack of the importance of money is almost
like saying, we get water that isn't, we get relational water that hasn't been pre-poisoned.
You see? Yep. It's the same thing you said earlier. You said, I, what did you say? I'm in,
I'm inclined to unconditional love or something like this, right? And I said, no, you just never
defected. The villagers don't, they don't defect. There's nothing that would motivate them to
defect. A big stack of money, they might just laugh at it and say like, no.
You know, I mean, if you're right, you know, to add to what you're saying then, you know,
like the helicopter, they kind of like bail out of their village for a while to get some money
so they can build a house. Once they get that minimum amount, they're back and they're not,
they don't want to be in the town anymore. They want to be back in the village.
That's hilarious. Do you see how much more intelligent that is than what we do?
Like in a situation like that, your humanity has a shot at surviving and so do the relationships
that most matter in your heart. In the other place where they just go to the village and they stay
there. I mean, they go to the town, you know, they go work to get the money and then they just stay
there. They continue to stay there because they bought extra houses. They're dying inside.
And that's it. They're going to live after they die. I mean, they're not going to die.
They must leave so much wealth to the next generation and things will be better. No,
they create, everybody is doing it, crime culture, you know, despite prosperity.
It's funny because I think it's really important when I hear you speak, you say,
we have a zero crime village. And I'm not sure that a lot of people even know that such things
exist at all in the world. Obviously, yeah, no, most people would be like,
what does that even mean? Although the statement makes it real, you know, the language makes it
relatively clear what it means. There's no crime here. And by the way, if there's no crime, like
you probably don't, you don't really need cops. You might need a fire department. Yeah,
but you don't need cops and you don't need weapons. You don't need lawyers. You don't need guns.
Yeah, you don't need an anti-corruption body. Yeah, right, right, right, right. Yeah, you don't
need courts. You don't need prisons. The most obvious things is like putting, you know,
cosmeticized dirt, you know, like it's really dirty, but you put lots of makeup and you stop
anybody saying the truth about it. Yes, all these things are, I mean,
I usually don't think in religious terms, but when I see the festering malignance
of the prisons and the courts and the cops and the armies and the military and so forth,
it's hard for me not to think that they're demons. They do what actual demons would actually do.
So it doesn't really matter whether their origin is metaphysical or not. They're the same damn thing.
Now look, here where we live in the West, in America, the institutions that
underlie our social agreements, our governments, which is a big mess of a million little branches,
our police, the military, the fire department, the hospitals, the schools, right? Those things.
Yeah. Some of them are decent. We couldn't get along without cops because shit would just turn
into the wild, wild West, we think. So we have to have cops. And sometimes the cops are an absolute
nightmare and sometimes they save your life. They sort of have both, you know, both valences.
The fire department almost always just does good.
You know, he's put out fires. Okay. That's not, of all the single jobs you could pick,
that one seems pretty virtuous. The hospital's kind of similar. The schools, the schools started
to get sketchy because it's about slave making and stuff. But
you think universities are worse than the schools?
The intensity of the blight, right? The intensity of the disease in the university is similar
to grade schools and high school. It's just more sophisticated and highly complex, right?
Let's just call this the malware in the education system, right? It's in every step of the system.
So the malware is in the whole staircase. But the way the malware works up near the top of the
staircase in the universities is different. And there's, you know, 15 new kinds as of last year.
That stuff is mutating, right? As fast as you could try to eradicate it, it's
emerging in new forms as you watch it, right? It's very,
it's highly resistant to technical intervention.
Its primary vulnerability is relational intervention. Change the relationships the
malware can't function. Hey, Darren, would the U.S. have less of a problem,
less of a problem, malignant super problem, if it wasn't such a lot, if it was, say,
five separate countries? Not messy. It's interesting. Okay. The honest answer is,
of course, we don't know. Okay. The simple, wait, let me finish. The simple correct answer is
any attempt at responding would obviously just be my opinion. Whereas some of the things that
I'm talking about are not merely my opinion. These are, in a sense, obvious features of our
situation. But I think
that solution or that transformation would change a lot of things. We've never really
experienced anything much resembling it. I don't have any data. And it's not like we're just asking
in a vacuum. We're asking in the time and context in which we live. So we're asking like,
if the U.S. split into five bodies in 2024, what effect do you think that would have on
malware and education? One feature of the setup that I like is if you've got five petri dishes
in which to attempt to spawn something more intelligent than our educational system,
you'd have five shots at it instead of one. But you can actually have as many shots as you want
because the fact that, you know, and I mean, anybody who wants to is free to start some kind
of new educational system. Most people aren't that bold. And there have been attempts, you know,
in the states we have Waldorf schools, for example, which are wildly different from
standard educational system. You don't hear much talked about what happens to Waldorf students.
I mean, like, for example, as a cohort, are they better citizens than the others, you know,
because right now, I don't know what the data is on that. What is that Rudolph Steiner's game,
I think it was. Yeah, Rudolph Steiner as well. Yeah, I one of my girlfriends had been raised
in a Waldorf school. And I'd known a couple of other people who were. And even when I was young,
some of the same ideas were used to build a school that had one classroom for all the ages. So
like a central, like, you know, unity, right, we'll keep all the ages together, they can learn
together, help each other instead of segmenting them, didn't go very well for who knows 10 reasons
to Sunday. But yeah, I don't know. Did it not go well because the malignancy spread across
so many aspects. Yes, look, look, you know, I can imagine a science fiction story where we'd go to
to. We pick 70 billionaires. We go to them and we tell them, we will educate your children.
We will give your children an educational experience that they will always be excited
about and they will outperform anything you can buy from anyone else.
And so you build the system experimentally that way, you learn how to do that, right, that way.
And then you just attack the whole fucking school system from there with the same with
whatever you can produce from that breeder reactor, right? How do we actually get children
meaningful human experience and at the same time, deep representational intelligence.
And one of the best ways to do that is just to teach them the structure of representational
cognition. Once they see that, they will never bow to it. They'll manipulate it from above,
