I suppose, I don't know.
I mean, is literacy, my parents weren't particularly intelligent, but they did read books, and they did read books to me.
And I think my parents were frightened a little bit.
I know my mom was, I don't think so.
But my mom was scared because, I remember, I mean, I was reading science fiction novels when I was five, maybe earlier.
Who brought them to you?
My parents, I told them what I wanted.
Oh, how did you know?
So like, I had seen advertisements for 2001 and Space Odyssey when I was watching Star Trek, and I knew what the book was about, and I read science fiction stories already, myself.
I could read them by myself.
So I asked my mom to get me that book, and she's like, that's a grown-up book.
And I was like, I want that book.
That's the book I want to read.
So then I got it, and I read it, and my parents ended up reading it.
And in a way, I was kind of educating them, because I had a lot of books.
Eventually, I became a book thief.
That's a story for another time.
I only still books to read them, though.
I didn't steal, like, valuable books and sell them.
I just, I stole books to read them.
When I was a runaway.
So I didn't have a lot of books.
I just, I didn't have a lot of books to read, but I was a little bit of a big fan.
sell them. I just, I stole books to read them. When I was a runaway. So I didn't have any
access. Yeah, when I was a runaway, I used to steal books to read them.
You said earlier that, you know, self taught yourself from 12 years old. Like,
that would have been like, almost unheard of, isn't it?
No, there are, there are, okay, especially these days. It's different now. There are a lot of
children who are, there's a cohort of young people who naturally become self educating
to varying degrees. Some of them become prodigies. Some of them become nobody's,
right? Some of them just disappear. Some of them go mad because they're lonely.
But yeah, there's like, I know a couple other, every once in a while, someone will sniff me out
and they'll approach me and they'll go like,
when did you, you know, what were you reading when you were a child? And I'll say science fiction.
And they're like, how about when you were little? And I'll say science fiction. And they'll go like,
yeah, that's what I thought.
Because like recently somebody sniffed me out and they were like, you're one of,
you're just like me, you're a feral, you're a feral kid who lived in the wilderness and you're
someone who's read a few thousand books and not two.
And they recognize the fingerprint of my mind, right? And I recognize there is when we have
conversations, it's like, I'm talking to my twin or something. It's ridiculous.
Yeah, there are kids that are like that. I imagine all over the world.
All over the world. But like, say, if you were like, if you were not going to school,
were you still at home? I ran away from home. Wow. No, I ran away. I lived in the forest.
Really? I lived in the forest in the Russian river. Yeah. In California.
Wow. I mean, you just find it hard to believe that people would do that in a first world country.
That's why. Number two, I would have thought that the comfort, I mean, you want a mix of the two,
not just being in the forest, but was home that bad that you didn't miss it?
I would have been killed if I stayed in that town.
Wow. I became like, by most like the home. Other young troublemakers like myself, hoodlums.
I went from being like a straight A student to being a little bit of a hoodlum.
And where I was living in Stockton, things were pretty bad there, even though we lived
in the good part of town. And I eventually ended up in various kinds of trouble with
young criminals. Now, it's not as serious as like gang life is, that's, it's really serious.
This is pretty very minor compared to that. But yeah, I basically, I realized that if I stay there,
I was 13. I realized if I stay here, I will either end up in prison or dead.
So given that belief, anything's better than either of those outcomes, pretty much anything.
So even just like, like living outside is better. So eventually I made it out. It took a few attempts.
Wow. And then you were able to be out for for years on stretch? Yeah, I came home in like the
last half of 17. So I was out for three and a half, something like that.
Okay. Okay. Wow. Your parents, I mean, your parents would have been like,
I mean, both sad and mad, no?
Especially, I mean, this is very personal. But
my mom was relatively indifferent. And I ran away to near where she was living.
Because it was by visiting her that I realized that there was this enclave in the forest where
it was a bunch of basically old hippies. So there was like this enclave and it was very
richly cultural unlike where I was living, which was like zero culture, like dead culture.
So yeah, I wanted, I wanted the culture. I couldn't access the culture because I wasn't an adult.
But I didn't want to be in Stockton anymore, you know, trying to figure out how to steal cars with
my buddy so we could get some weed or whatever the fucking, you know, agenda was.
Yeah, I just, I didn't want to be in that place anymore. And I did not get along with my dad
who I was living with. So I went to the forest and, you know, some adults helped me.
I made it through okay. Nothing horrible happened to me while I was on the street.
I hitchhiked around, you know, didn't eat much food. A lot of fasting.
Oh, yeah. But I hitchhiked through the U.S. really months. Wow. Wow, that's crazy.
Yeah, it was fun. Yeah, that's, that's really intense. In what year were you hitchhiking? I mean,
I'm hitchhiking in like the late 70s, early 80s. Mine was 1980s from January.
Oh, wow. Yeah, not, not at this similar time. Let's see how old was I in 80s?
But, you know, it's quite, it was fun. I mean, it was a different experience. I mean,
it was a rich experience. I stood out, you know, like a sore thumb. Yeah. Well,
in the south, right, it was like impossible to get a ride. Right. Yeah. Yeah. And we learned
some chords and stuff. So I said, hmm, how do I overcome this? I've got to find a white guy.
To hitchhike with. Yeah, brilliant. Yeah, you have to hitchhike by first hitch,
you have to racially hitchhike before you vehiculatively hitchhike. Right?
Yeah, that's hilarious. Oh my god. Yeah. I came across the really solid guy. I mean,
my hair was long, right? And there was this guy, I was on my way first just to go to a New Orleans
for Mardi Gras. Hey, talk about that. You know, we're talking about a very opportune
pertinent time because Mardi Gras is going to be happening soon in now to about this time of the
year, right? 1980. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Before. Yeah. Okay. So I want to go to New Orleans, you know.
And then so I with my buddy, I'd reached up to Atlanta, right? From college, hitchhiking with
him to Atlanta. So I was in Atlanta, I thought, hi, to New Orleans. Three days day in, day out,
I go to the exit, you know, which is a bit of a, it's not that easy to go from downtown Atlanta,
like Salvation Army or something like that. To the exit. So anyway, three days and I couldn't
get it right. Nobody was stopping me. So I said, okay, I'll take a greyhound to New Orleans. I go
to New Orleans. And that was heaven for me. There was like the hobos and the hippies from everywhere
for Mardi Gras. And that guy looked like Jesus Christ, you know, hair. Yeah. The oldest and
self-blown hair. Brilliant. I mean, he didn't guru for him. Because we got along really,
really quite well, like, you know, house on fire. So, yeah, he had been hitchhiking for like 10
years, you know. So with him, the world was a different world, you know, because people would
stop for him, right? I would be like back, back a bit in the back. And then when the class stopped,
around, you know, and people would say, you're safe enough. So it's good, right? I went all around,
quite a bit of time in Boulder, Colorado, and Kansas City, where his home was. And then I wanted
to, following the Grateful Dead, I was wanting to follow, you know, to Mount McKinley in Canada,
but got stopped at the border. The Canadians wouldn't let me in. So no passport. Yeah. No.
Yeah. My, I had a passport. It was best in all that. So all was good. You know,
I went to university in Virginia, Charlottesville, right? Oh, yeah. After my university. But the
student visa runs out. After you are a student, you know, the visa has got a termination date.
So when I, my plan was to go to, to the concert, you know, the last, Grateful Dead concert happens
in like the equinox or something of that sort, you know. No, the one of those dates, yeah. Well,
the day when there's the largest amount of light in Alaska. Anyway, and I would come back
because the flight was out of Seattle, but the Canadians said, no, no, no, your visa, your,
your, your American visa is over. So they won't let you back into America. So since they won't
let you back into America, we can't let you into Canada. I see. I did not need a visa to Canada,
Canada being in the Commonwealth, Malaysia is in the, there was no need for a Malaysian to
have a visa to enter Canada. Oh, I see. Yeah. You know, but it was on the grounds that I wouldn't
be allowed to leave. I wouldn't be, you know, if it, if my basis was I was flying out of Seattle,
I wouldn't be allowed to enter. And in that case, I would have not had enough money and whatever.
It's pretty obvious. Canada can stop me from entering Canada, not on the grounds that I don't
have a visa, right? But on the grounds that do you have enough money to sustain yourself when you're
in Canada? Yeah. So that's reasonable in pretty much all the world, countries all over the world
have environment, right? Exactly. I didn't prepare for that because on the thing that, you know,
I am just going to come to the concert, come back, right? Get on my plane and I'm home.
I don't want to be here. I mean, you have a short term goal.
You know, you have a short term goal. I'm sorry, go ahead. Yeah. So yeah, me not realizing
immigration things in a black and white, you know, very strict way, that's pretty much the
half tool. Yeah. But me, it didn't fully occur to me, you know, because you know, in my head,
I worked out I'm still in America because I'm going to Alaska, man.
Right. But it doesn't, it didn't register in my head that, you know, hey, you are,
doesn't matter what you think. It's so funny you say that. It's really funny that you say that
because I was just thinking about when I was a runaway and when I was hitchhiking.
I was so naive that it literally didn't occur to me even slightly
that I might want to be careful because what sort of an adult picks up a 13-year-old boy on the
side of the road. Yes. Never even occurred to me that I was filtering the adults. Right.
And I'm filtering them in a specific direction. Right. Which is has some interest in a 13-year-old
kid. Now, thankfully, only, I don't know how many times I was near trouble,
but only twice did I actually get close to trouble. Oh, I see. And both times I was able to
avoid them. Yes. Both times I was able to resolve the situation by acting tough.
Okay. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Guys like drives past my stop and I'm like, hey, my sauce back there and
he's not, not speaking to me and it's late at night and we're out in the middle of nowhere.
I just basically said, I will cut your fucking head off with my pocket knife. I will stab you
right now in the neck if you don't pull this car over. And he was like, boop, car over. I got out.
Oh, wow. Oh, so did you actually have a knife then? Yes, I did.
Oh, good. I used to carry a dagger, actually, little dagger.
You're not that naive then? I was. It's just that in this case, I realized,
like, okay. Yeah, I can still be, I can still be very naive.
I'm not cunning the way some people are cunning. And I honestly, it never once occurred to me
that most of the people that would like, that most of the people that would stop for a kid that
looked like me would probably have ulterior motives, or at least a goodly, you know, some
portion of the people, right? Never occurred to me one time. Not once. Is it because, okay.
Darren, when I was in the US too, right, like,
I mean, the country was a different country in the sense that I would have thought
it's nowhere as dangerous as it is now, maybe? Me, I would agree. Yeah. Also, I was in a strange
subcontext, right? I was in the Russian River. So there's a lot of, basically, the three primary,
okay, this is gonna be really bad, I'm gonna say here, but the three primary populations there
were rednecks, homosexuals, and hippies. And the hippies and the homosexuals got along fine.
The rednecks hated both the other camps pretty much, though, got along better with the hippies than
the gay people. So that was the context there. And obviously, you know,
yeah, I could have gotten a lot of trouble, but I never did. I never did. No one ever hurt me.
So growing up, I mean, after the age of leaving home, you hadn't been exposed to the dangers of
such dangers as much. No, not at all. I was catastrophic. You have no idea how naive I was.
In your wildest estimations, you will underestimate my naivety.
I was, you know, yeah, I was, I was very intelligent and skillful in certain ways.
But my God was I naive. It's just one of the failings I've always had, yeah.
It never, okay, look, let me be really clear about this so you can understand the depth.
Not only did it never occur to me that I was attracting the people who would have some
interest in a 13-year-old boy ever. It never occurred to me. Not only that. It never occurred
to me that it didn't occur to me until just now. 40-something years later, 50 years later.
It never occurred to me that it didn't occur to me until this conversation today.
That's how naive I am.
I never realized that I didn't realize until just now.
Yeah, it's not bad.
You know, to me in my, when I got rights there, when I started getting rights and stuff,
the people who were picking us up was so generous. That's made a big difference and innocent.
You know, usually it'd be like small town somewhere and they're throwing some weed and
deers at the back. Yeah, some of that too.
And all beautiful it was, right? Beautiful it was. I mean, nowhere else in the world,
I think, I mean, I, would you get that? No, because, yeah, it's true because the
counterculture in the United States at that time was still kind of blossoming a little bit.
And how old were you? Were you like 18, 19, were you like 20 or something?
Yeah, I would have been 21. Okay, yeah, yeah, perfect. So,
you know, you present to the drivers obviously
something they might find fascinating and adventurous to some of them.
So that works in your favor. But yeah, it was pretty good. Like, most people were very kind.
Some people gave me money or brought me food.
Some people asked me, you know, like, how do you survive? They were curious.
Occasionally, like if it was raining or something, somebody would be like, hey,
you can just crash at our place if you want, you know. And obviously that could be very dangerous,
but never turned out to be, not once. Because, I mean, I was 22, so it didn't,
that occurred, didn't occur to me, you know. And it happened to me. I was least
concerned about, I mean, I didn't even get there. To me, it's like, how do I get it right? I want
to get the money. Yeah, that's all I was concerned with too. I was just like, how do I get to where
I'm going? I wasn't thinking about why someone would or wouldn't stop to pick me up. In other words,
there was no, there was no meta reflection, right? There was no metacognition about, yeah,
yeah, no metacognition about my circumstance. Whereas you must have had some by your age.
Yeah, I mean, more, I mean, but, you know, violence wasn't, you know, like, you didn't have
the school shootings. You didn't? Yeah. Yeah, the malware wasn't concentrated yet.
Yeah, you know, and, you know, say, for example, you know, people may say, okay, you know,
you know, blacks are dangerous or whatever, but dangerous to me. Right. You know, I'm almost
black, you know. Right, exactly. So, you know, yeah, they're more likely to see you as an ally
than as an enemy or prey. Yeah. And, and I wanted to try it. I desperately, I had to,
