They're somewhat opposed and they tend to oppose each other in a way not entirely dissimilar to how our brain hemispheres oppose and inform and interact with each other.
In a way I have nothing to compete with machines just to talk to you right now.
Isn't that interesting?
Who will win?
In what period of time?
Science and religion.
So this is a way of knowing.
There's no problem with a way of knowing by itself until it's taken up by collectives and enacted.
And this is a way of knowing.
No problem again by itself with a way of knowing until it's taken up by collectives and enacted.
Now if these collectives, if their goals and ideas and relationships are true to nature, to ecology, to the history and meaning of life on earth,
and to our needs as living beings and intelligences, then they will tend to produce reasonably survivable results.
In our case we have the opposite.
So what science tends to produce when enacted by false collectives, which are pretty much the only kind we have,
is lethal technologies that will wipe out everything and claim to be blameless.
Let me be really clear.
Since 1940 we've had 2100 nuclear explosions on earth.
That's a full scale nuclear war that no one has even noticed.
Our city blocks are surrounded by large mechanical viruses that are wiping out life on earth.
Again, people talk about problems with populations.
They don't even notice the problems with machine populations, which are exploding and burgeoning all around us.
Just as if our minds, lives, bodies and intelligences were surrounded by viruses.
In fact you can hear those viruses competing with my own voice right now for your attention.
See, they're talking to you and they are dead and you are competing with them and so am I.
And every living being that has a voice is competing with them,
but those beings that have no voice are just being wiped out by them.
Wholesale, billions per hour, just burnt down.
So science as an authority when it's enacted and embodying falsified human collectives
that have no purposive intelligence, no relational intelligence.
That's about as lethal as you can get. That's far more lethal than religion.
There's nothing religion ever did in the history of life on earth
that came anywhere close to the atrocity, the constant ongoing atrocity
that our relationship with scientific authorities has given us
and brings into our lives as our own bodies, minds, activities
as the threats that we cannot face and survive.
There's no knowledge way on earth more lethal than science in its current incarnation
as it is enacted by false human collectives.
That will snuff life on earth in about one geological second
and we are inside that second right now.
Now that might be 10 years, it might be 50, it might be 100,
but it will wipe us out and it is wiping us out right now.
And you can't gather statistics fast enough to see the 100,000 domains
that grow each moment in which it's wiping us out.
There's no way your statistics can catch up to the atrocity
that science as technology is making us into.
So over here you have what everyone thinks is the golden boy
of human intelligence, science.
Right now, that's the single most lethal force on our world
next to just the ignorance that keeps us from forming real human collectives.
That's the number one problem, by the way,
is the ideas and the fictional goals, purposes, hypotheses
that we become in order to avoid being human,
in order to avoid being ecologically and relationally intelligent,
in order to avoid the transcendence, much more than sentience,
which is our birthright and how we are born as living beings on earth.
Earth is something we have no idea about.
Our models of what it means to be a world are so broken
that they're not even worth talking about.
And I can show you various ways in which that's true.
That's not really my goal here.
For the moment, I want to turn to religion.
What science produces is ways to leverage force into technology.
This is then adopted by false collectives and enacted wildly,
all around, within and everywhere on earth.
Now, just to hit one more point on science.
Science gave us a poisoning way.
So unbelievably shocking that we've now
multiply poisoned every single organism on earth
with industrial and technological toxins.
We've also poisoned every communications domain with noise.
Nothing alive can survive that.
Religion couldn't hope to accomplish that in its wildest dreams.
Moreover, the primary dangers that religion poses
are wildly amplified by science,
because science provides the technology
with which religious fanatics attack each other,
themselves, us, and the world.
So again, claiming that science is somehow noble
and religion is somehow screwy is badly messed up.
Science is far more lethal than religion
and actually supplies insane people with the technological leverage
to enforce death, oppression, prisons,
and just outright rape and murder on whomever they feel
divinely inspired to impose that on.
Science is not clean.
Science is not yet human.
And science has practiced by false collectives is lethal.
Science produces technological leverage on force
and ideas that we can objectively ascertain
about our environment, nature, and energy relationships.
Religion is also very confused
and can be quite deadly to our intelligence,
but it doesn't tend to have the same scope, right?
It can't really leverage a threat against every life form on earth.
Unless science helps it with things like guns, nuclear weapons, radiation,
biotoxins, stuff like that.
So what I want to be really clear about is that
science tends to produce, how should I put it?
Abstractions of force, leverageable technology.
Religion tends to produce beliefs.
And beliefs are a kind of relational technology,
but they posit, in almost every case,
a supreme authority, a surveyor, right?
Science also posits a surveyor.
Science's surveyor doesn't believe in anything, isn't human,
and is abstract.
Religion's surveyor doesn't have to have any beliefs
and is kind of a fictional superintelligence, yeah?
Both of these are fictional superintelligences, science and religion.
They're both wrong,
because they're not being guided by anything intelligent, human, or alive.
They're just hypothetical.
Of the two, both attack our intelligence in different ways.
Science by excluding life and being, which it has to do to be science.
Science can't include living beings in any reasonable way,
and in fact, most biologists and most branches of science
are happily willing to torture every living being on Earth
or thousands of billions of beings every day all day long to get data.
They think that torturing living beings is just fine,
as long as you get some data that you could help the fictional collectives with.
Excuse me?
That would be like shotgunning your mom to get her x-ray,
and then going like, I wonder why she died?
I was just trying to... oh, in fact, that's what x-rays are.
They shotgun you with radiation.
Now, religion is very problematical,
because it similarly installs false authorities
in our inward surveillance environment that we use to become ourselves.
By the way, when children play together,
that's a form of intimate surveillance.
When people make love, that's mutual,
they're touching each other, they're feeling and touching, they're intimate.
We live in and out of surveillance, but we don't understand this.
And we need to, because the way that our minds and psyches work
is intimately linked with these authorities and surveillance.
So what I really want to clear up here
is that all of the authorities that build fictional collectives,
which is nearly all of our authorities,
are horribly misguided.
And the ideas that are produced in the technologies,
the beliefs, the books, they're lethally wrong.
And if we were to believe them for even a moment,
we begin to die to ourselves.
Our intelligence just shrivels up.
And in that situation, we immediately have fear,
which builds the power of the false authorities,
and then we turn to them even more compulsively, more addictively.
This is psychosis.
This is the nature of the problems that we have.
All of our problems, the most significant roots of them,
are based in believing, following, belonging to,
supporting, and failing to pose false authorities.
Science as a way of knowing is useful when guided by purpose,
ecological, and relational intelligence.
So you've got to have that expert surrounded by a ring
of other intelligences who guide their progress and goals.
Otherwise, lethal.
Religion is the same way.
And religion is one of those guiding authorities for science.
Science is one of those guiding authorities for religion.
But unleashed from that guidance, unleashed from all of that other intelligence,
these two authorities are deadly,
and they are both false because there is no objective universe
in which it's okay to torture living beings for data
or to forget all of the effects of your accomplishments.
That's what science does.
They just want to pretend, hey, we didn't make nuclear war.
We didn't poison everything in the environment.
We didn't fill the entire communications domains with lethal noise.
We just gave you the ability to do that.
And then you did it.
Well, actually, they're dead wrong about that.
They did it.
Religion is the same thing.
We're not being evil.
We're not creating hell on earth.
We're not damning you to a life that is the kind of hell
that we're projecting for afterlives and things
if you don't believe our absolutely absurd ideas
of advanced intelligence above us that just judges us
as though we're a criminal court system.
No.
Religion doesn't take any responsibility for their assault
on intelligence and living beings.
Science takes none for its.
So we need to guide them.
First of all, we're going to have to become intelligent together.
And part of that is learning how to form authentic,
purposive, relationally intelligent collectives
within for the history of life on earth
and discovering what that means and can be
within for each other, within for our world
and all of the living ecologies that remain for the moment
are relatively poisoned but intact
and for the future of life on earth.
Without that guidance, our authorities become tyrannies
and we are converted to fuel, defenders,
reproductive organs for them.
We spout their news.
We spout their lies.
