Hi. Today is Sunday, January 19, 2014. It is 11.59 a.m.
My name is Darren Stevenson. I don't really have a name.
And I'm not any specific thing or word or function that you could name.
I am not a person. I am not merely an animal. I am more than just an ecology.
I am, at the very least, a universe.
And so when we think of ourselves as less than a universe or less than an ecology,
or less than a really astonishing being of many octaves or orders of being,
most of which are hidden from us by our ideas and our language,
then we're making a mistake.
We're putting on some kind of limitation that we've been trained to wear
as our identity, our meaning, our opportunities, our functions, our beliefs, etc.
This is a kind of blinding, and it's very cruel and vicious in its effects,
both personally and collectively.
We often hear this idea that we're connected, but it's really a gross kind of fiction
because holes exist in a distributed body in the same way that a school of fish
or the forest of neurons in my mind, which are all apparently distinct.
They're separated by gaps, by the way.
They are not separate, but they are not merely one.
They are a kind of distributed wholeness.
And that ness means that they are not frozen in any state that we can name or abstract,
except as a linguistic convenience, a way of playing a game together.
You see, my fingers are not really separate, nor is my hand a distinct thing.
And yet, as a convenience, we can say I have here one hand.
But the weird thing about this hand is that it's much like my own body.
Let me explain. First, it is one whole thing.
It's a hand. We understand that.
It's not really connected to my body. It is me. This is me.
This is not separate from my brain. This is my brain.
Strangely, it's not entirely separate from your brain,
and there's lots of ways in which this belongs to you.
But I'm going to stay with some of the simpler facets of this idea.
So my fingers are not really separate. You see, they're aspects of a whole.
And I am a lot like this, because I like my hand in first one.
I have one unifying body, which we don't count, by the way,
and that's a very dangerous thing to do.
Like my hand, I have one member that I may call my thinking or leading member,
which organizes the other members into useful collective activities and potentials.
It has two major sections, neck and head, like my thumb.
Like my hand, I have one, two, three, four, one, two, three, four working members.
Like my hand, they each have three major sections.
And so what I'd like you to underst- hand with me is that in a very real sense,
you and I are the hand of something, and like our hands, we have something like a wrist.
But at the scale of the individual, at the order or octave,
at the organizational size, if you will, and speed of what we sense as our individuality,
we have a linking aspect, which is invisible, that is like the wrist.
And there's a good reason that it's invisible.
If it were visible, it would have more mass than the universe.
So we don't see this linking aspect.
And this linking aspect is actually can be understood and explored directly,
access as the roots, the roots of our minds, how it is that we can be what we call sentient,
but I understand to be transcendent, which means a localized instance of all minds
and all moments of all minds in all of time.
We think of ourselves in very confused ways, and we've been taught these ways by authorities of various kinds.
These authorities get instanced in us in a kind of an amphitheater,
both above and on the same level as us and beneath us.
And the ones above us, we understand as authorities, and the ones sort of at our own scale,
we understand as peers, and the ones below us, well, we understand those in lots of different ways
that I won't go into in length here.
All of them are crucially important to include.
But we need to recognize that we are not the authorities, we are not the projections of them, definitely.
We are not our peers, we are not the projections of our peers,
and we are not those beings beneath or opposed to us or who we reject or say are lesser than us.
We are not the projections of them.
Yet, in our experience, we often, how should I put it,
we exist as a kind of merged projection of ideas and voices, histories and moments, memories, thoughts, feelings
that result from reflecting our own experience off of, as if we are in a sort of hall of many orders of mirrors.
These three orders of mirrors.
And so we reflect off of our heroes and off of those beings that we think are true authorities,
and then we try to understand ourselves in relation to that reflection.
Well, interestingly enough, that is surveillance.
That's a form of surveillance.
And our own minds actually arise in an inward environment of surveillance.
And the nature in our feelings and our potentials for intelligence and unity and fulfillment and growth, opportunity,
the things that we hope for in life.
These are in many ways cruelly limited by projections of false authority.
And this false authority comes from many branches of knowledge, right?
These could be understood as the branches of the tree of human knowledge.
This could even be related to the Genesis story in which we went to a strange tree and gotten some trouble a long time ago.
And part of the trouble that we got into was that we were introduced to the idea of the hypothetical.
That is, what might also be said or what could be said, what disembodied experts might agree upon.
And so this is really, we live in a milieu of lethal fictional collectives.
These are groups of not really people because they're not allowed to be people.
The minds that they have are not minds like a living being.
They are fictional minds.
And they were established in the image of fictional human collectives whose goals are generated by lies.
Lies about the meaning of being alive.
Lies about what it is to be an animal or a living place.
Lies about what it means to be a world or a human person or to be intelligent or have a mind.
Lies about who we are supposed to be and become, what functions we should be doing or acting as.
And by the way, we should never really be seen as a function if we are our humanity and our intelligence.
And our inviolable birthrights have been amputated.
These will then be sold back to us at ever-increasing prices as we can see all around us in common moment.
So this tree of knowledge that we have has branches and on each branch there are experts.
Over here or maybe over here on the right we have science.
My camera is reversed.
This is one of those technological things that you get reversed in lots of ways when you play with technology.
And it's not easy to notice this unless you're trained.
Over here we have the experts of science and they seem to think they're clean of all blame.
And that they're the good way of knowing true and dependable, logical and rational.
They're wrong.
I'm going to show you how wrong they are.
They're lethally wrong.
Over here we have religion.
And religion wants to tell us about important surveillance beings.
Outside of time or in the sky or after life who are supposedly looking down upon us and judging us.
And they want to tell us who we should be and what we should do according to that.
Science wants to tell us what we should be and do according to their ideas of what isn't true about this.
And religion wants science to be informed by these strange fictional sky gods.
Now whether or not there are actual intelligence above ours, intelligence is above ours which there are, let's face it.
They don't match anything like what science wants us to believe or what religion wants us to believe.
Nor do they match what philosophy wants us to believe or gurus or politicians or activists or revolutionaries or anyone.
They don't match up because, A, much of the reality is unspecified.
Meaning that it's in a superposition of being.
It doesn't come down into our experience until we become it together, right?
We have this amazing capacity to draw superpositions of possible thought and being into direct existence and expression
as ourselves and our collectives, our ecologies and our living world, when it is a living world.
In a dead world you have none of those opportunities.
So one of the things I want to make clear here and I'm kind of experimenting.
I don't really know where I'm going in this conversation.
I'm just kind of having my tea with you at the moment.
So thank you for joining me and bearing with me.
One of the things I want us to look at together is that
mind is a kind of surveillance.
It's a self-surveillance in a field of relationships.
And many of those relationships that are really problematical are with authorities.
And most of those authorities are false and they would wipe you out as soon as they would befriend you.
They will not age you. They do not care if you live or die.
They do not care if anything lives or dies.
In fact, they're not real beings and the collectives that they foment are not real collectives.
Let me explain.
Most of us know what happens to indigenous peoples.
These are living human animals who live in the wilderness of a living place.
When they encounter a representational culture like our own.
We don't have to wonder what happens to them.
We can see it all around us in the current moment.
And we can also look into our rather confused ideas about history and just see what happens.
And usually what often happens is this.
The indigenous peoples sort of believe that the collectives whose emissaries are coming to meet them are true beings.
Like themselves, they are alive in a true way in nature with each other.
Here's the problem.
They aren't really.
What met the indigenous peoples of the Americas were false collectives.
And these false collectives were lethally confused about everything.
So confused that they saw living places and beings as resources to be converted into power war and wealth.
Well, you can go ahead and do that to the first people there.
But then that's going to just circle right back and happen to you.
Which is what's happening to all of us right now.
Except instead of one or 15 or 20 false collectives and false authorities, we have thousands of them.
And there are mountains of them.
And the ones at the top look like the really big ones.
Christianity, Islam, science, democracy, market economies.
Consumerism, news.
So right now we're being sworn colonized by false collectives.
And we are making our own minds, minds and futures in the image of these diseases.
Which are infecting us, remaking us in their image.
And then basically causing us to fight against each other as though we were each distinct.
Which we cannot ever be.
In case it's not clear, there's only one world here that looks like this.
There's nothing separate in there except as a convenience.
And how should we put it?
A unique way of magnifying benefit, right?
To instance one thing in many bodies is a way of incredibly magnifying the potential and benefit of whatever that one thing is.
And that's mostly what's going on in living systems.
It's not what's going on in human organized systems at all.
The opposite is going on over there.
And it burns down intelligence.
It burns down ecosystems.
It burns down the history of life on earth for a quick fix of an addictive, false celebration or benefit that lasts for an instant instead of for billions of years and growing with interest.
So what I want to be really clear about is that our minds and our intelligence is in a sense a surveillance game.
And let me be really demonstrative about how this is true.
You've all seen an excellent sports team.
And you can see how their focused attention and mutual surveillance and how the surveillance of the other team and their mutual attention turns into action.
And these two together reach for excellence.
Now they seem to be competing but they're improving each other, right?
Of course this is a fictional competition over fictional goals that have no real meaning and actually burn down our intelligence.
Don't give us roles except as consumers and spectators.
And we get wildly excited about this to the point of even being willing to kill each other.
One of the highest paid jobs in the educational field in the United States is a sports team coach.
But that's a fake collective that fights fake battles for phony gains.
How is it that that could be so terribly popular?
But we have no analog that does the same to solve the lethal problems that are wiping out our families, the history of life on Earth,
our ecosystems, our possibilities of intelligence, and our ability to unify, communicate and become human together.
How could we have just the representation and basically nearly none of what that representation should be sort of a flamboyant celebration of?
But this is in fact our current situation.
So our own minds and our relationships are born in a, strangely enough, a surveillance environment.
And in fact we used to have imaginary friends which were imaginary ways of being in self-surveillance except they weren't entirely imaginary.
And this idea that we have about imagination is vastly confused, believe me.
What the imagination is is pretty much everything that matters, not that funny thing off in the corner that just makes stuff up.
Actually, the people who say that's just your imagination had to use their imagination to make that statement and so they are very confused.
What I really want to get at is this.
Why do we have millions of false authorities and none we can trust?
And when I say none, I mean really nearly none.
Almost all of our collectives, almost all of our species of authority and instances of it are completely fictional.
And in fact what we call corporations are actually known to be legal fictions.
They are something we made up.
Now, I want to talk about the two major players here which are in authority, which are science and religion.
Now in and of themselves, as knowledge ways, they are both blameless because the word science is just a word that has to do with a method.
And the word religion actually means relinking.
It's just a word that has to do with methods.
Now these methods are a little bit different.
