Hello everybody, welcome.
When we sleep, usually we dream.
Here I use the word in its simplest, common, rather clumsy usage, meaning that we experience
images, images, wow.
We experience images and situations that have extraordinary forms of meaningfulness associated
with them, and it would be truly astonishing if we could have the experience of something
like that while awake.
And there are some analogues of this in our common experience, and there are simulations
of it in our representational modernity.
These are things like shows and video games and such, but these are very crude simulations.
There are other possibilities such as the use of psychedelic drugs, which I'm not personally
a huge fan of, though I don't mean to denigrate them categorically.
Also various forms of play, particularly perhaps role-playing.
Our relationships with animals have some of this extra meaning associated with them,
and so too with plants and insects and living places.
Those I'm a big fan of.
Someone said, well, if you don't like psychedelics, what would you suggest?
I feel like living beings, non-human beings, living places, animals, plants, insects.
All of the kinds of organisms here on earth, which I understand in my own way as both the
extension of my own body and mind, and I am the extension of their body and mind, and
extension of their body and mind.
Well, here's a hummingbird doing the diving attack.
I don't know if you caught that, it's kind of hard to film.
What's the farthest doing up so high?
Why is the ladybird flying so high?
Might be one of the hawks is here.
Yeah, there's the hawk.
That's why.
Interesting.
I know my birds, they don't usually fly way up off the ground.
They tend to stay relatively low to the ground.
But there's one of the Cooper's hawks and one of the Jay couple who are my friends and
companions.
I also care about the Cooper's hawks, too, and it's probably farthest, and that looks
like probably the female of the hawk couple, just a little bigger than the male.
Last night I was on a walk talking with my friend Eric, and I decided to go to the lake
at night, and I was hoping to see an owl, or one or more owls, and I was also hoping
to see some bats.
And I got to the place, I got to the lake and wandered around, didn't see any owls on
the way there, and when I got there I saw, or I didn't see, I heard a great horned owl
male calling, so I called back, as I often do, both to practice emulating the sounds
of animals, and also there's a special kind of game in nature that most creatures are
willing to play to various degrees.
And it's a complex game, it's a communications game, where signals are exchanged, and it doesn't
have to be perfect, you don't have to get the signal exactly right.
Most animals are intelligent enough that if you get close they'll play with you, and this
includes creatures that we might not expect to play this way, for example jumping spiders.
If you do some gestures toward jumping spiders, especially with both fingers, at the same
time occasionally, first of all jumping spiders are interested in human beings, and they're
aware that we're intelligent animals and aware of them.
In a quite, they're quite startlingly intelligent jumping spiders, much more intelligent than
people would ordinarily suspect.
And by intelligent I mean aware and available to both communion, just being together, and
also communication, to exchanging signals, that's what I mean in this instance of intelligence.
So I made a few calls to the hawk, or excuse me, to the owl emulating its calls, and it
flew across to me right over my head, and landed on a nearby tree and continued calling,
and so I made a few more calls, and it flew even closer and made a few more calls.
I've never had that experience with an owl before.
I've emulated their calls a few times, but I never had a situation where it became obvious
they were paying attention to me, and this was certainly that kind of situation.
And that's when things start to become a little bit dreamlike, right?
Because my identity has changed, now I'm interacting with non-human beings, there's introduced
into my relatively ordinary moment-to-moment experience, there are these extra dimensions
of identity and meaning, which are not easy to name, but they're easy to sense.
When our experience becomes kind of what we might think of as magicalized authentically,
then we are closer to the dreaming awareness that often arises when we're sleeping.
And then I was talking to my friend and saying, you know, I was really hoping to see some
bats here this evening, and sometimes I can call them, and I imagine that I call them
by imagining them, and then loving what the image in my mind of the bat and their beauty
and their power as a people, their sensitivities, their intelligence, their history, their lineage,
all of these feelings come into my mind when I'm calling to the bats.
Oh wow, the coyote girl.
The blue jays are sort of noticing the coyote girl and making calls around her.
I think it's a girl.
I said that because there's a mom coyote here, and this one that just passed, I didn't get
a good look at the animal, but it resembles her closely.
The one that I see often, she has a fang that sticks up out of her mouth on this side.
So it's easy to recognize her if it's the same one, if I see her face.
So you see, the introduction of animals into our situation, wild animals, it transforms
everything, because in one sense, it awakens the animal aspects of ourselves, the old,
really old aspects, far, far older than language or concepts, far older than representational
cognition, truly ancient, and this is a kind of dreaming.
Now we have this word dream, and we can use it to refer to all kinds of different things
and experiences.
Even if we use it only to refer to those things that happen while we are sleeping, there are
still many, many forms of dream, many different kinds of dream.
And it would be helpful if we're going to use language about dreaming, which is kind
of like using sand about water, or yeah, using deserts about water or something.
It would be helpful if we had a more diverse catalogue of categories of dream experience
so that we could understand that there are a wide range of different forms of dreaming,
but most human beings experience some of the elements in the catalogue throughout their
lives.
And maybe there are unusual exceptions, people who can remember all of their dreams most
of the time, people who can't remember any dreams, perhaps people who don't dream.
There are certainly many people who claim they do not dream.
Boy, the Jays are really busy today.
I have touched that hawk, it has touched me, physically, I won't seem to forget that.
So there are many forms of dreaming, as an example there's the kind of dreams that we
have, or the scenes we may experience on the way to sleep, just as we are falling asleep.
There are some transformations of consciousness that we're not ordinarily aware of, and then
usually, not always, there are very unusual kinds of dreaming scenes that are often quite
bizarre, and can be somewhat incoherent.
I remember one from a long time ago, when I was 18, and I fell asleep at my job, which
was okay for me to do at the time, and there were these like three-eyed monsters with tentacles
wearing sports t-shirts, riding four by fours over this terrain that was very bumpy, and
they were jumping and laughing and being crazy.
It's not a regular dream, it's like some weird scene.
And often if we have a dream that occurs in the place we are actually sleeping, that's
often a very special type of dream.
If we have a dream where there is problems with some common electronic situation, like
lights, often a strange dream, if we have a dream in which we see the sun, or the stars,
or the moon, this is a special kind of dream, often, not always, and there's a plethora
of different kinds of unusual dreaming.
So the fact that we had a dream, if someone says like I dreamed, that doesn't tell us
much yet.
We want to know, I want to know more about what kind of dreaming were they experiencing.
And also of course, what can they recall about it, although it seems very unlikely that our
recollections of dreams are accurate.
They tend to be skeletal remains of the dreaming experience where we have a linear stream of
events that happen like a plot.
And this is certainly nothing like dreaming.
In fact, the relationship of linearity to dreaming is highly questionable.
The waking mind probably imposes linearity as it processes the dream and translates it
into something that can be held within waking consciousness.
Certainly this is not the dream, because if we could truly remember the dream, or even
tell the dream, I think we would have to be dreaming at that time.
Because again, once we're awake, categories, identities, things, beings, situations, sequences
of events, these do not have the same depth of dimensionality, meaningful dimensionality
that they have in dreaming.
They have a different kind.
That depth that we have in dreaming has been translated into something like structural
complexity in waking.
And that's a crappy trade.
You'd like to have both at hand, both freely available, but if you mostly have just the
structured aspect, it's going to be a kind of poverty, a kind of emotional and relational
and intellectual and cognitive poverty.
I know that's a tree, but unless that evokes some feeling in me, it's not very useful to
know that that's a tree.
If I merely have the experience of categorizing the things around me, that's a this, that's
a this, that thing represents an opportunity, that thing represents a threat, in the way
that is more or less common to waking consciousness, what we have is a terrifying impoverishment
of awareness.
Awareness has become a kind of bank manager, an accountant, and this is a cruel and tragic
way to live.
Yet most of us in much of our waking lives are in a situation like this, and we're differently
in it at different ages throughout our lives.
It's interesting that we think of our human existence as one thing, it's impossible for
that to be true.
It's many things, and they transform over the phases, the life phases, the sort of in-stars
of our humanity as we walk the path of incarnate beings in linear time.
And of course most of us who have managed to survive long enough to age a bit realize
that something about our interior is still very young, regardless, like our interiority,
regardless of our physical age, I at my age, late fifties, still I feel that I am twenty
something in my in my core being, I don't feel fifty something.
My body feels fifty something, I've acquired sophistications that are, you know, a nuance
to my awareness, thought, speech and such that are natural to my age, but fundamentally
like when I'm dreaming or something, I don't dream of myself as fifty, or fiftyish or whatever
my age is.
I dream of myself as like, I mean my twenty is somewhere, maybe thirties.
And some might conclude from that that I'm stuck somehow, but I don't see it that way.
Rather as I've said many times before, I think we are all of our ages, and so in the dreaming,
in the generalization that could happen in dreaming, we might be our median age, but
of course some people perhaps dream of themselves as being old.
I'm curious about this.
I'm curious about the question, when you dream, how old do you seem to yourself upon reflecting
on the dream after awakening?
I'd love to interview many people and find out about that, but yes, I think we're all
of our ages, much like a tree, has many rings, the core ring is its first year supposedly,
and so on.
So there are lots of kinds of dreaming, and dreaming is in a sense magical because it
introduces non-ordinary dimensions of identity, meaning, relational opportunity, and result,
effect, and affect, right?
Feeling seeing, which is profoundly natural to the dream, somewhat less natural to our
waking experience, though that can vary depending on what's going on.
We are capable of having deeply felt visual and sensory experience while we're awake,
but for the most part, it seems that many of us don't, and it probably changes throughout
our life as we go through life phases, how sensitive we are, and how available we are
to being affected by what we see, and dreaming to see is to be affected, right?
And I think this is probably more like what I might refer to as our natural state.
I've been profoundly fascinated with dreaming ever since I was a child, and I've resisted
rather strenuously common ideas and descriptions, explanations, and so on of what dreaming is
or what happens when we're dreaming.
And there's another kind of dreaming which is to envision, right?
To envision, for example, a future toward which we are working and for which we are
hoping.
This is what I would refer to as visioneering, and I think it's a very important part of
our lives and our life paths and our capacity to affect them with our will and our intentions,
this visioneering, but it may sometimes become very difficult for us to do or even seemingly
impossible under certain kinds of circumstances.
And I've experienced some of these circumstances, as well as having experienced the vital, nourishing
profundity of actively visioneering my future and then living into that.
I want to hear, make a side note, that the people who are selling little methods for
this, like the secret and other shit, I find that stuff reprehensibly confused and simply
not trustworthy, right, not good.
So again, I think they are commodified repackaging of something that is natural and good and true
about our essential humanity, our awareness, our minds.
It's natural for us to visioneer our futures, and I think it's healthy to do that.
And it's probably unhealthy to be stuck in some situation where we're not doing that
or we feel we can't.
And that's not an easy problem to solve when that arises.
