I don't have a prescription for it at the moment.
So that's another kind of dreaming, right, visioneering.
And even if we are creative, if we write or dance or make music, especially if we improvise,
this is also a kind of dreaming, right, the dreaming faculties become involved with waking
consciousness when we are being creative.
And that's a wonderful experience that I am profoundly supportive of.
Here in the day, I was playing with a young raven emulating its peculiar sounds.
They have this musical clacking they can do.
They can make all kinds of sounds, and some of them are extremely difficult to emulate.
When we were having a good time and the raven was following me around as I was doing my
ceremony and my chance, it was really sweet, it was fun.
There are different kinds of lucidity in dreaming, and these produce often astonishing results.
I am deeply interested in lucid dreaming and have had some experience with it myself.
But what I'm more interested in is sort of the opposite.
I want to understand how we might bring the dreaming faculties into our waking experience
without our waking experience collapsing into a dream.
And lucid dreaming is sort of the opposite.
We gently bring certain faculties of the waking mind that are ordinarily, we introduce certain
faculties of the waking mind that might otherwise ordinarily cause the dream to collapse into
waking, but they're introduced gently enough that the delicate manifold of the dreaming
experience is sustained.
And there are different kinds of lucid dreaming.
There are also some things that resemble lucid dreaming but aren't exactly lucid dreaming.
And it's my strong suspicion there are profoundly magical aspects of special kinds of dreaming
in which we can accomplish tasks or goals in a non-ordinary environment, the non-ordinary
environment of dreaming with non-ordinary activity.
Some chamomile over here.
So this is what chamomile looks like.
That stuff we sometimes drink in teas.
And as you can see most of the petals are pointing downward, but in the sunlight they
point upward.
Yeah that's some chamomile.
These are sunflowers.
There's some kale.
This could be, I'm not sure what that is yet.
There are specific transformations of the dreaming manifold that result in powers.
And it's not really my goal to examine this in detail today.
I just want to mention it as a note.
I am not particularly inclined to quest for power.
Power is not really my primary interest though I'm not uninterested in it either.
I'm more interested in insight, understanding, awareness than in power.
It strikes me that, I was thinking this just before I started making the video and perhaps
I'll wrap this up soon, but it strikes me that dreaming is to the waking mind somewhat
like digestion is to eating.
We eat the food, the digestion process begins with chewing and salivating and things.
Enzymes are introduced, but in order to really get the nutrition that the foods can provide
we have to digest the food and it goes through this long process of digestion.
And I actually think that dreaming is deeply associated with digestion as well.
And perhaps also what we sometimes refer to in the modern day is the gut brain.
There are neurons, there are distributed populations of neurons in our digestive system and probably
also in our heart and in some other organs, but particularly in our digestive system.
And it seems blatantly obvious that these neurons are symbiotically linked to what
we refer to as our microbiota, the unique ecologies of microorganisms that comprise
half of our cells in our human bodies, the non-human half of our cells, without which
we wouldn't last a moment.
So all of us are half non-human at least, and I think that's an important thing to remember
and pay attention to.
So I think dreaming is very important for our health and anything that affects it is going
to affect our health.
And certainly our mood, our intellect, our memory, vocabulary, and so on.
But I think that it's particularly fundamental to maintaining our memory and developing our
memory, which is the foundation really of our mind, our identity, everything.
No memory, you got nothing.
Well you've got moment to moment sense and perhaps subconscious response, but even then
without memory, it's hard to imagine being able to make sense of sensory experience at
all.
And then there's the last thing I'll say, you know, most of us are pretty concerned
about dying.
We want to stay alive.
And I'm in that camp, I'd like to stay alive.
Not forever, but I'm kind of not too excited about the prospect of death either because
it seems fraught with peril to me.
Though I may have that backwards, I've certainly gotten things wrong before, even very fundamental
things.
So it strikes me that dreaming is probably something like training for what happens when
we die, presuming that something does happen, or that rather that the manifold of our human
awareness is not merely extinguished, but proceeds through some set of adventures or
phases of transformation, so on.
It seems fairly clear that awareness is, by the way, I also think it's funny that we
tend to speak as if dreaming is all the same thing, it isn't.
Being born is all the same thing, it's not, it never was, it can't be.
Dreaming is all the same thing, it can't be.
Each of us experienced birth, but the results of birth were very different for each of us,
even though they might resemble, in a superficial way, the results of other people's births.
But each birth is very unique, and each life is very unique, even though it matches up
with the superficial categories of this was a birth, that is a life, and so on.
And so I think it's funny that traditionally we tend to think of death as the same thing
happens to everyone, essentially, and I just don't believe it.
I mean, the same thing doesn't happen to everyone when we dream, and everybody doesn't have
the same dream at the same time every night, dreaming is a unique experience every time
we encounter it, and so is being alive for a day, even if our way of being in our life
has become deadened enough that it just seems like another repetition of you wake up, you
do the blah blah blah, and you go to sleep, you eat the food, you excrete the waste, you
do the chores, you go to sleep.
So I think that whatever death might be, it's probably profoundly diverse in terms of what
is possible.
And I'm relatively concerned about it, because it seems like, at least while I'm embodied,
I have the capacity to direct some of my experience in developmental play and such, whereas I'm
not so sure that's going to happen without a body, don't know what the transformation
is going to be.
But I suspect that death is something like training for, excuse me, that dreaming is
something like training for death, which I guess could also be reversed in that death
is something like training for being incarnated and dreaming.
I'm looking at a yellow swallowtail butterfly.
So these were some of the things that I had on my mind after my meditation today.
I was thinking a little bit about dreaming and thought I would talk some about it.
One of the most important things about it is that what we see in dreaming, we don't see
it in the same way we see things while we're awake.
It's a different kind of seeing, and it's much more inclined to have transformations
of emotional tone and form resulting from anything that we interact more or less directly
with in the dream, but also the context in which the dream is taking place.
So there's this seeing feeling going on.
We don't merely see things, we feel what we're seeing, and part of that is because in the
dream we are seeing the formations of our own awareness.
Now if we could do that, and many people have suggested that we should while awake, we might
liberate ourselves from the trap of everyday consciousness and perhaps even from the sort
of self-identity that we cling precariously to in the waking world, and that is radically
transformed when we dream, though aspects of it are sustained.
And this is one of the reasons why psychedelic drugs are interesting or popular is because
under their influence we often have the experience of feeling sight.
We feel what we see, it has associated with it dimensions of meaning, non-ordinary meaning
that are vastly unlike what we usually experience while we're awake, though there are exceptions.
Again, in a state of ecstasy while we are awake we will have feeling seeing, and sometimes
without ecstasy we will have feeling seeing.
Something may capture our heart, and so we have an intense experience of feeling what
we see.
With psychedelics it's more generalized so that almost everything evokes this experience
rather than only certain things.
But there's something not entirely authentic to much of what I understand about psychedelic
experience.
There's something, what is the word, come on vocabulary, there's something a bit like
emulation rather than the actual stuff, a bit like counterfeit feeling seeing.
The drug causes the feeling seeing instead of it emerging naturally, and this is different
from when it emerges naturally.
So I'm concerned about that, and I've had experiences that have nothing to do with drugs
that radically out astonish anything that's ever happened to me with psychedelics.
And those experiences I hold very dear and would like to have more of, although they
can be quite dangerous, because when we're having those experiences we no longer belong
with the common people who we are surrounded by.
And there's various ways of not belonging, and some of those are dangerous, and some
of them are vital, and some of them are, you know, virtuous, and there's all kinds of
different flavors of non-ordinary experience.
So I just wanted to talk a little bit today about dreaming, and some of the things that
were on my mind about it, hopefully you found this in some way enjoyable or enlightening.
I always have fun making these videos, and very grateful to those of you who pay attention
to them and learn with me.
So for today, thank you for joining me.
May your waking world experience expand and admit some of the non-ordinary faculties
and senses that are natural to our humanity, but inhibited by our common waking circumstance,
habit, and situation.
All blessings to you.
Hope to see you again soon.
Bye-bye for now.
