I will lift you above my current position, from there you can help me first to that position and then return the favor, lift me above.
And this again is presuming that up is good, up equals insight, various other similar metaphoric associations.
Thank you.
I have reacquired my raven escort for the moment. It's one of my favorite things to acquire actually. I'm sure other humans think it peculiar.
Throughout the history that we know of and we've been taught, obviously we have been taught
staggering falsehoods about distant history, and of course also lots of lies about recent history.
Because as we know, history is often written by those who prevail in whatever conflicts ensued, and the colonizing, as I've mentioned many times before,
I believe that the colonizing humans were themselves colonized, and so we're carrying the structure of the disease they would hand off to their future generations
and export catastrophically around the world. And it's not surprising that colonizing peoples would have stories about apocalypse because they will make that shit happen.
They will bring the apocalypse, whether God intended it or not. But you can see throughout history the humans celebrating the awareness of beings beyond them.
And probably monotheism was uncommon in human history prior to maybe, who knows, oh, yep, that's the problem, isn't it?
Earlier I saw Bumblebee's mating and announced to my friend that it's very dangerous and
troublesome, and the female that I saw who was being mated with is dead because she could not move off the pavement where multiple males were having at her.
Historically, whether or not the monotheism thing, that's probably a very recent development. It's conceivable that it was part of human cognition very long ago, but I think it unlikely.
Because long ago what seems to have been much more clear was a structure that resembles our own hand, where you have different members for different features, and the combination of the members represents an uptick in authorization rather than the ex-cathedra declarations of a single member.
You can try to imagine the incredible failure that you would experience of any attempt to enact the powers of your hand if you only had access to the tip of your pinky, and the rest of it was just incoherently doing whatever the hell it was doing.
Your hand, as unimaginably profound structurally as it is, would be nearly useless for most of what you might attempt to enact with it.
It is the combinatorial agreement among the members that produces transcendental ability, transcendental seeing, transcendental understanding.
I can imagine a scene a long time ago where non-human intelligences forge locustius, right? They're at the speaker.
And they then speak to the humans, instructing and empowering them, right?
Do this and we will extend the aura of our intelligence, skillfulness, protections, and perhaps transcendent, transcendental anatomies.
We will extend them into your people, and thus, if something like this was going on, this would naturally result in our peculiar relationship with extrinsic authority and authorization, what the humans often refer to as hierarchy.
When we hear stories about wolves, there are words like alpha, and there may be some correlation with what's actually going on as wolves, but also probably not, because whatever's going on doesn't necessarily match up with the humans.
The ideas of hierarchy, whatever's going on in nature, both resembles and, at the same time, diverges from the human ideas of hierarchy.
Okay.
If our cognitive development was influenced by or occurred in concert with non-human intelligences that are not merely from terrestrial nature, though the intelligences that are within terrestrial nature
certainly qualify as transcendental and profound and divine or holy even.
But if non-human intelligences from beyond the earth, either from time-space or beyond time-space, whatever, progenerates the foundations that become time-space, then this would explain a lot about our very peculiar situation.
The science fiction author David Brinn remarked on this in his books about the concept of uplift, that every intelligent species, in the future where there's interstellar travel and so forth,
and the humans find out that there are many other intelligent, quote-unquote, like representationally intelligent species, right? Creatures from other planets is what is meant here.
The humans discover this, but they also discover something weird that each of those, each of the intelligent species had a known uplift parent, meaning that some other species specifically took them under its wing, and usually this was a situation in which there was a debt incurred.
Such that the species that is uplifted would then serve the progenitor, the mind progenitor species for some given period of time, which is kind of a weird idea.
But in his uplift books, the humans could not find their uplift progenitor. It was unknown who lifted the humans to representational cognition.
And hovering in the background is a sort of fairy-like, hominid-like species called the Thimbrimi, who have antenna, who it's fairly clear either were the uplift parents of the humans or know the answer to the riddle.
This is a very interesting speculation, and Bryn falls down in some places as an author, particularly he's not good at wrapping things up, but he's brilliant at posing a situational, brilliant situational construct.
And this particular construct is useful.
What is bothering me? Something stuck in my craw here. Let's see what's going on. Of course humans don't have a craw.
From everything I have seen of our species and my attempts to understand the development of our minds, the likely historical situations and transformations that appear likely to lead to the development of our minds.
It's a very strange situation we find ourselves in as human beings in relation to group identity, personal identity, and so forth.
And specifically our deeply weird relationship with the often conflicting necessities of authorization and consciousness and relationship.
We seem incomplete. We seem very clearly, I am profoundly suspicious, that we are half-creatures as regards our, you know, as animals we're not well suited to survive in environments.
We're well suited to survive in shelters. We don't have the weapons that other animals have, claws and teeth and incredible strength of jaw and so forth that we can inflict a pretty good bite.
We don't have fur. We don't swim well. The Blackfoot story of when the humans first came and the animals got together and the beaver strongly suggested that the humans not just wipe us out.
Excuse me, that the animals not just wipe us out. The beavers strongly suggested that the animals not just wipe us out because they were very upset with what the humans were doing at one particular human, a trapper, what he was doing.
He had kidnapped the favorite grandson of sort of the beaver king and they wanted him to return that child to them.
And the beaver suggested, the animals said, you know, the humans have nothing. What can they do? They can't fly away. They can't swim very good. They can't run very good. They don't dig under the ground.
They have no fur, no claws, no scales, no shells, no wings, no tentacles, no stingers, their little globs of meat. Why should we let them lord it over us and dominate us and so forth?
And the beaver's suggestion was that they, if I understand it correctly and I probably don't because it's not a rational idea, the beaver's suggestion was that they bring the humans into the family of the animals very intentionally by making them an offering from each of the animal peoples,
making the humans an offering that would confer one of their sort of sacred abilities on the human beings.
But my point here is that something very weird is going on in and as our species and it's obviously very dangerous to itself. It is not sustainable. It's anti-sustainable.
And it's also extremely dangerous to all other forms of life and it should be blatantly obvious that that also means it's very dangerous to anything that has mind-like experience.
The humans are ironically bizarre. It's as if the most important features of our nature are hidden somewhere or missing from us and the religious people will say, yes, it's in God.
They're not entirely wrong, but it looks to me like our species developed with another or an array of other intelligences and yes, these certainly were the intelligences of nature, but it looks to me like they were not merely the intelligences of nature.
There is something about the sky as an ocean and the understanding of earth as an island and the understanding of advanced others who either come from the ocean or they come from other islands in the ocean
or are the spirit of the ocean itself or are the intelligences that compose structure within time space or the transcendences.
So it looks like we're missing something fundamental and we're desperately trying to make up for that by making things like corporations and artificial intelligence and so forth.
Whatever we do, apparently the humans don't want to get smarter together. We want to make objects more intelligent. That's a very fucking strange motivation.
Anyone who sees this clearly should have infinite suspicion about something like this.
It's a suicidal and omnicidal orientation. It makes no sense unless we're attempting to prosthetically replicate something fundamentally familiar to our interiority from our prehistory, right, like the developmental history of human brains, minds, cognition, bodies and so forth.
Yeah, there's just such a variety of problems here.
Which anyone who sits down to just think carefully for a few moments will immediately get their teeth into.
Why are the humans this dissociatively confused? Why are they this dangerous to themselves and anything that moves and much of what doesn't?
Why are they trying to make machines? Why are they trying to become the servants of god-like machines?
No living creature that had any sense of value for organisms would embark on a mission that resembles this in any way at all. They would go in every other possible direction first.
And these topics
are fundamental. These are the foundational puzzles of our nature.
It is possible that when we are very small, we experience contact with these originary intelligences or transcendences, and that as we get older and begin to undergo the processes of in-languaging and in-culturation,
the cognitive organs that would ordinarily connect us with such progenitors or companion intelligences are amputated for the sake of producing representational cognition, which isolates us.
And then the expectation of the companion intelligences, so to speak, is transferred to the parents, who themselves are probably similarly bereft and may have religious leanings or so forth, but have no idea that anything like an actual companion intelligence exists.
I can't help but feel that our species looks a lot to me like it resembles a primary symbiont that is missing its parent symbiont.
Like an obligate secondary symbiont that's missing the primary symbiont, to rephrase what I said previously.
So, I should have some really good... I mean, imagine bees are ants that no longer produce queens. This would be one example.
Utterly confused, everywhere in their activity attempting to recreate the resemblance of a queen-like thing and failing.
Another example would be, you know, a remora is a fish that attaches itself to a shark.
And I'm not meaning to pose the primary intelligences or transcendences that I think we came up with as shark-like, though some of them could be.
But you can imagine the problem of remoras in a world that's not only where there are no more sharks or whales or anything.
There are no more large fish at all, right?
Would they survive like what would they do? What would their existence be about?
If they developed hand-like prostheses, you might imagine them making everywhere images of sharks and large fish, whales, manta rays, so forth.
That they evolved in intimate, direct bio-relation with.
It doesn't make sense for animals to make representations of things they have no memory of, and our species keeps doing this.
Cars are representations of something we remember. Motorcycles, bicycles, guns, computers, all these things.
They are abstract. They're dead inside representations.
And we serve them while pretending to be served by them.
This is a mystery worth chasing. This is one of the foundational questions of being human.
What the hell is wrong with our species? The answer is like 780 things, most of which we have no superficial clue about.
So this is a mystery I will continue to chase, and I am grateful for your presence with me in quest.
If you have any ideas or thoughts or anything, by all means, please share them with me in the comments.
Take a moment to like, share, or subscribe if you enjoy these long-form walk and talks.
I look forward to learning and discovering new perspectives and keeping our little boats floating rather than sinking together for each other in the future.
Thank you for joining me. May your ways of life and experiences be nourishing, regenerative, pro-generative, and beautiful. Bye-bye for now.
