Hello, everybody.
Welcome.
I have a number of recordings sort of stacked up that I haven't published yet, and I'm looking
forward to that, to publishing them.
And hopefully some of you are looking forward to listening to them.
I've just had an amazing conversation with one of my more precocious, and I may have
the wrong meaning of this word, but what I mean is like, whatever I might mean, the
chances of me effectively encoding it in language are probably pretty slim, and this
is most of the case with language, even when we become extremely cautious about which words
we select and how we imbue them with meaning together.
Language is far too slow to convey meaning well in most cases, right, in cases where
the meaning isn't merely trivial.
Obviously our capacity to communicate effectively in language increases when we are together
and when we have certain kinds of agreements.
Oh goodness, I'm so glad I remembered this.
Okay, so as a male, I don't really care like...
I don't care much about the common ideas orbiting God, yeah, this is all a big problem.
I don't even know if I can continue in this fashion.
Let's see what I can do.
Granting that humans are diverse and also that generalizations are not true of all class
members or category instances of beings, situations, objects and so forth.
I'm often very concerned about generalizations, especially when they are promoted to a universal
status.
But as a male, it has long been my experience and perhaps more so with heterosexual males
or classically heterosexual males, canonically, but a lot of the talking often tends to be
kind of grandstanding.
I can use crude sexual language to characterize this, but I'll resist that urge here and feel
free to try to imagine what the hell I was talking about.
But I noticed, for example, particularly on contexts where the males are not actually
physically together, this problem becomes even worse.
I wrote an essay on Facebook a long time ago in which I talked about something I called...
And this isn't the crude sexual language that I was using earlier, but like dick jousting.
So I saw a lot of males posturing, posing, competing for dominance rather than profundity
or usefulness of content.
And there's certain kinds of agreements that we can make together or fail to make together
that either enhance this problem, exaggerate it or inhibit it.
And I was talking with one of my closer friends yesterday and ordinarily what happens when
we talk.
So imagine a situation where a certain amount of flexibility and autoscopic insight are
required in order to survive.
Let's say in order to swim, the more rigidity, the more heaviness, the less floaty the vehicle
becomes.
And what I said to my friend because I was noticing it and it's happened in a number
of our conversations, one or the other or both of us, and particularly once one partner
in the, you know, once one companion does this, if there's no awareness, the whole thing's
going to collapse into a kind of fencing.
By fencing I mean, you know, with foils, with pointy wire swords.
And this is rarely productive.
So as we were beginning an argument or a debate or discussion, oriented around problems that
I see as mimetic, mean, like psycholinguistic problems and how virtue gets weaponized, particularly
in the cultures of what we might refer to as social justice warriors or wokist branches,
cohorts, tribes, so forth, we were going to discuss this topic, which I'm not much going
to discuss today, I don't think.
I'm also aware that though I have some modest education around such issues, I'm not an expert
and I may have delusions around these matters.
And I'm the kind of guy that prefers to have my delusions dissolved or transformed rather
than cling hopefully to them like a drowning person to a life preserver.
I prefer to learn.
I'm not as interested, although it can change, right, I'm human, but fundamentally I'm not
as interested in being right or correct or anything as I am in seeing better.
So my friend and I had had some arguments around this previously, and one of his positions
was the conservative, the extreme right is really, really dangerous as well, and that's
certainly true, depending on what we mean by the extreme right.
And in order to have a good conversation, the clarification of meanings is important.
What do you mean by such and such?
In a bad conversation, it can become absurd because you can just keep posing that, well,
what do you mean by the, you know, you can keep posing the question to a ridiculous
or uneaseful degree.
So in the discussion, I was pointing out some features of what I think of as wokest ideology
that I mistrust dramatically, that look, they look poisonous to me superficially.
Now the thing that makes this really dangerous in some senses is that, you know, I'm a, in
wokest categorization, I'm a cis, gender, Caucasian, white guy, older middle class white
guy, and thus the inheritor of many privileges, probably not entirely untrue.
And so what that means is I am effectively the bad guy, I'm the bad guy, I start out
being the bad guy.
And so my perspective is on such matters, being that I am not a marginalized person,
so to speak, can be summarily dismissed as bullshit, or, you know, canceled or whatever.
So we talked around these issues, but this is not what I was, what I'm actually interested
in is the smell of this sage plant, oh my goodness, I want some of that on my body.
The oil from living sage plants is what I use the way other guys use aftershave.
I want to rub it all over my face and my hands.
So before my friend, as our discussion was beginning, hi, yesterday, I asked for a point
of order and the point of order was this.
And I have, you know, a redneck friend who would describe himself that way, so.
And when we met I knew we were going to have some, like first of all I knew we were going
to be close friends, I had had dreams, there was dreams before we met and stuff like that.
So I knew we were going to be close friends, or I felt we were, and I also knew that we
were going to have profound ideological conflict.
So I asked if we could have an agreement between us, and he was like, yeah, what is it?
Well he said, I mean, you mean a formal agreement?
I was like, yes.
He was like, well what are you thinking?
And I said, can we agree that whenever we're together and we're talking, we will try to
learn to see better than we have seen previously together, and to help each other to see more
clearly and from a position above or beyond where we are usually inclined to, from which
we are usually inclined to see and or speak.
And he said, well that's what people do, that's what we all do all the time, I said, no it
isn't.
And it's very different, you know, a lot of what guys do is pound the table with the hammer
of their usually poorly educated ideas.
So he agreed, and that helped our relationship a lot, and got us both to entertain perspectives
that otherwise we might have summarily dismissed, or just rode rough shot, you know, rode rough
shot over the top of for the sake of, you know, pulpit pounding.
I see what is true.
I the man can declare what is actually important about topic X, which is one of the most tedious
and boring and oppressive things to be subject to, woe unto the other men, the women, the
children, the living places who are subject to this over human history and particularly
modernity.
It's a constant part of everyday agony.
And it is clear to me that I have been multiply guilty of this problem throughout my life.
And if anywhere particularly, in the one place I would not want for this to be happening,
which is inside my romantic relationships, very much would not want that.
And yet, for most of my young life was both oblivious and puffy with hubris, because I
like to think I'm smart.
And the irony of that position is written in a thousand, you know, fables.
What happens to the person who thinks they're smart?
You'd be much better off thinking you're blind, or thinking you have trouble seeing what other
people can see very clearly, because for most of us who are unusually intelligent or have
some aspects of inflated, inflamed cognition, without someone to carefully guide us, a good
companion, a wingman, a wingperson, we're going to go sideways a lot, and we're going
to crash into things we can't even see, and we're going to hurt ourselves and we'll hurt
others, and even if we are very sensitive and want to do anything other than hurt ourselves
or others, it's a huge problem for all humans, but it affects those of us who are somewhat
inclined to hubris or arrogance or self-aggrandizement.
And in case it's not obvious, look around you.
In American culture particularly, there's a vitally contagious tradition of, yeah, I'm
fucking amazing, and you, right, like, yeah, I'm the best thing that I've ever walked around
on two legs, and it instances itself differently in masculine and feminine cultures, and it
instances itself differently in non-binary cultures, but there is this tendency to parade
to posture, to peacock, which is, I think, a word or a usage of this word that I made
up, but I'm not sure, which is to broadcast one's own fitness for mating, or to broadcast
one's proficiency, one's skillfulness, when it should be blatantly obvious that actually
successful, actually skillful, actually intelligent people, there's no need to wear the bracelet,
right?
You don't need the necklace.
Hi, I'm smart.
How are you?
Not only do you not need it, it's a bunch of wasted energy.
Obviously, the guy who walks around saying, you know, well, you should kiss me.
I'm the best kisser there ever was, or whatever, kind of ridiculous, self-inflating nonsense.
The people who are broadcasting are obviously insecure in some way, or they wouldn't be
broadcasting.
Secure people don't broadcast that way.
They just immediately demonstrate whatever the statements might have otherwise implied
or declared.
If I'm really intelligent, then I'll demonstrate that in our relationship and in conversation
together.
It's not the kind of thing I would say.
If I say I'm intelligent, something is going wrong.
So it can take some of us a long time to learn such lessons.
Particularly if we are more or less isolated, which is relatively common and much more common
over the past, say, eight years or so for humans in general due to a variety of changes
in the fundamental basis of human existence and the existence of life on Earth.
So yesterday, when I was talking with my friend, I just
saw Heron execute from a perch.
I don't know, even trippier.
Wow, that was amazing.
So from a perch about realizing that the Heron is approximately three feet tall and
it's standing on a perch about two feet above the water, I watched it execute a move that
was first typified in language to me by my friend Martin Peters in the 1980s.
Huh, this is really trippy.
A diving dart.
And it pulled what was either probably a bass or a sunfish out of this little reservoir
and then proceeded to figure out how to get it down its throat without the fish escaping,
which it did with great skill.
And one of the things that's interesting is that it's swallowing the fish while it's alive.
And at the moment is almost certainly still alive inside the Heron.
One imagines that the fish might have been able to see through the surface of the water
such that the form of the Heron appeared on the other side of the surface.
Mysterious and perhaps compelling, visually compelling, right?
It's very common that predators fascinate their prey and have developed, we think, through evolution.
Secondary and tertiary faces.
So for example, I noticed that the Heron, its long pointy head, which has a little crown
of two long thin feathers, but on the body of the bird there are two black marks in the
front that may be what in biology is called alsolada, meaning eye spots.
When you look at the face of a rattlesnake, you will see three distinct faces.
There is a face that looks like a mouse, which is one of its prey.
There is a face that looks like a turtle. These are different sizes.
And then there is a face that looks like, that is the actual face of the rattlesnake.
There may be more, but what I'm looking at here, if you were to see from the water up toward the bird standing above you,
what you would see is something that looks like a much larger face than the bird actually has.
The bird's face is incredibly small because it's long and thin.
It's pointy.
And so it's obvious that these eye spots on the front of the bird's torso would contribute to a vision from beneath it.
That looks like a much larger face.
And the bird is hunting again, so I'm watching what I'm talking about.
It's really quite profound. I did not realize this about the herons until just now.
I've watched them many, many times. Unless you see them from a specific angle,
you will not see the eye spots on the wing elbows that face the water when the bird is hunting downward,
which is mostly hunting like downward thrusting spear.
And I would suspect that what I saw in the rattlesnake faces is probably a principle thoroughly common throughout nature.
It's very obvious in animals that have blatant eye spots such as butterflies and gone in flower mantises,
pseudocreabotra, ocelotta. Ocelotta means eye spot, which comes from the word we used to name the ocelot as well.
So to return to my previous topic, yesterday I was sitting with my friend in my room
and we were getting a little vociferous. We were excitedly beginning to argue and I could feel my mind turning to rock.
I could feel I'm getting dumber. The louder and more insistently we talk the dumber I'm getting.
So I paused in our discussion and I said, you know, this is an appeal, I'm appealing to you,
that we make an agreement because if we don't have an agreement like this, I can't speak for you,
but my mind, like I want to float and I want to see from a better perspective than I've seen before,
but if we don't have this agreement, my mind, like the boat that we are forming together,
