that we will travel on the surface of the waters of intelligence and insight together,
that boat is really important to me and I can feel right now that my mind is becoming like an anvil.
That old blacksmith's tool, they bang metal on top of and it's super heavy.
You drop it in the water, it can drag a whole boat down with it.
So I was like, yeah, if we don't...
If we don't agree together to carefully preserve...
There's a sophisticated word I'm looking for that I can't find.
If we don't carefully preserve the floatability, some of you will know the word that I'm looking for instead,
it means a similar thing to the very clumsy thing I just said.
If we don't carefully preserve that, my brain is going to turn into an anvil
and I'm going to just sit here not seeing better, not getting smarter,
but I'll just sort of make a bunch of declarations about what I think is the problem or the case
in the topic that we're chasing together.
I wonder if that guy's an actual soldier because he looks like he could take me apart with two of his fingers.
So I spoke up and I said, look, we've got to preserve the boat.
We're losing our vessel right now and I'm not claiming it's your fault.
I'm just saying if we don't have an orienting agreement together,
that we're going to go for better flotation, higher ground, more insight,
more understanding than we've had before, I'm sinking here.
I'm falling into that rigid, hubristic, I know what the problem is,
I know what's going on here, blah, blah, blah, blah.
And I am just as subject to it as anyone else.
Most of what qualifies as insight in my awareness is insight about myself,
my own experience, my own failings, my own conflicts,
and the places where I lost the most important two forces came together
and both of them lost and I lost more than either of them.
And the whole dang thing was going on inside me, right?
It was all...
And it's not that I'm narcissistically self-fascinated,
rather it's that I spend a lot of time by myself and I'm relatively isolated.
Undesirably, I'm quite gregarious and like other humans, particularly bright and creative ones.
And even more so groups of them.
So I just spoke up and said, look, now this boat is sinking right now.
Please, could we just pay attention to the word that means tendency to float better?
And can we notice when we're starting to sink into rigid declaration of previously held positions
or ideological and or cultural resentments and so forth, right?
The low-hanging fruit of conversational insight.
And often when a group of men are together in my experience
and there isn't an orienting agreement like this,
it's a race to the bottom, right?
Can we go for lower-hanging fruit?
Can we get even dumber than dumb?
Hey, have me that whiskey.
Is there a hammer there? Let me bang that on my head a bit and then I'll speak.
And louder and louder as the night proceeds, right?
So I was very grateful to have this orienting agreement.
And it's one of the agreements that orients my spoken word recordings.
I'm trying to see better imagining that you and I and all of those who listen are together
and imagining that all the listeners or most of them anyway are motivated by beauty and insight
and intelligence and learning and growth.
And I always have a bit of a background concern which is natural in any kind of surveillance state.
And we certainly live in one now that predators are listening.
So it's something I'm also aware of.
It's quite dangerous to present complex information about our interiority,
concern, life circumstances and so forth in public.
There are two primary dangers.
The first is general to be like your society, your culture, corporations, the government, so forth.
And the second is personal.
These are people who are either obsessed with you and there's all kinds of different obsessions
or they have some other reason to be motivated to do one harm.
So I have some awareness of all of these things when I make my recordings.
But I like to think that I have a similar orienting agreement, right?
Let's go for an array of better perspectives if we can and let's not dwell too fiercely on previously established pinnacles.
There is the peculiar issue in English where higher equals better.
Above is superior to below and so forth.
In our actual existence this is not really the case.
But when we are using metaphors of seeing to equate with progress or development or learning,
there are really profound things that can be seen.
I mean, in fact, the phrase, to understand was once shown to me as a very powerful act of both self-humbling and...
It's all good.
So one of my teachers showed me that if you really want to see and attend another being clearly,
make them very big in your seeing.
If you can, look up to them from below rather than down on them from above.
Now, the teacher that was teaching me may have been trying to teach me something peculiar to Darren.
But I suspect that it's not merely peculiar to Darren.
So understanding means to become very small before the subject of one's relation or inquiry or seeing
and to see from this very small position beneath them, looking up toward them.
Make of this what you find useful.
So if we want to learn and grow together, a useful orienting agreement is very powerful.
And often humans presume such agreements are already in place.
That doesn't work as well and often fails completely.
An example of one feature of such an agreement is in the intellectual dark web,
the idea of steel manning the argument of another, strengthen their argument,
make their argument your argument and elaborate and emphasize features of it they themselves probably missed.
Become the proponent of the argument of your opponent long before attempting to oppose it or demonstrate its failings.
This is a very powerful agreement.
Steel man the argument of the other.
And of course, not all conversations are arguments.
But when we start talking about what are the characters, qualities, failings, efficiencies, and so forth,
the structure of mutual interlocution.
And I don't know the origins of the word location, but I strongly suspect it relates to speaking.
And also perhaps authorization.
And that's the actual direction that I intended to go.
If we place authority outside of persons and outside of statues,
outside even perhaps of gods, and particularly of representations of gods,
which must be one of the most ironic things humans ever did was to represent the divine,
why there are prohibitions against this, against the making of images in Muslim culture, in Islam.
Very powerful and useful prohibition should be carefully explored.
Why?
Why would we not want to make images?
What the Muslim people do often instead is they make incredibly beautiful geometries.
This is also very, very profound and worth careful study.
We don't make images, but we do make geometric patterns.
So I was thinking today, and I've diverged from my intention as I often do, rather dramatically,
but I was thinking today about the problems in authorization, in thought, language, culture.
That's strangely misnamed irony that we refer to as civilization.
It's not clear if there were ever intelligent human civilizations.
In modernity it seems very uncommon, not completely missing.
There are degrees of relatively intelligent cooperatives where the humans actually work together for each other,
and perhaps all beings, with relatively minimal impact on the history and future of life on Earth,
the environment, the ecologies, and so forth, relatively minimal.
It's pretty tough to do anything presently that doesn't offload damage onto the anciently conserved ecologies as human beings.
What I was thinking about earlier was the crucial centrality of authorization in human thought and experience.
Consider the problem, if you will, of what to do with yourself.
Now, for most of human history, this problem existed only for the wealthy, if even for them,
only for the incredibly powerful, who were partly liberated in the sense that they may have experienced what we refer to as leisure time.
Time free of obligation.
I think, honestly, and in order to form sentences, I am doing an authorization dance in my own mind right now.
I think the idea of leisure time is intrinsically self-conflicted.
Because in order to have it, it means you must have departed relation and become an individual.
So you're always really...
Which for a pot animal, like I suspect we are, and look, we are all different kinds of animals because not all humans,
there are humans that certainly prosper dramatically, or even prefer isolation.
But it's not clear to me that they would do so if the context was authentically cooperative, nurturing, encouraging, empowering, and so forth.
Perhaps like day and night, they might occasionally enjoy what we think of as time alone.
Just that phrase by itself is pretty bizarre, because if time is by itself, boy, there is a strange prodigy.
There's an anomaly there. Time alone.
But what is meant by this is usually...
Okay, now I know that bird. I saw that bird before, and I wondered if it is referred to as a stork.
But now I remember that it is usually referred to in English as a night heron.
And I've seen them around lately.
You can see that I was just using authorization. What is the correct term? Okay, correct according to what?
Obviously, in my mind, I am structuring my consciousness linguistically, as if there is, quote, authorized nomenclature that points at that physical organism.
Or if I am less aware of the difference between life and objects in a more para-left-hemispheric dominant way, then I want to know what is that thing called?
And I will separate it out from the rest of the environment and see it as distinct.
So you can see that in structuring my consciousness, even to myself, even if you were not here, if I was not recording, I would still try to understand what do the English-speaking humans use to refer to that bird.
And I now remember, when I saw it before, I didn't. I remember that it is referred to as a night heron.
And that suggests that it's a nocturnal hunter, which I had to use an authorization schema to determine as well.
So what I'm trying to get you to see here, okay, yeah, thankfully I've managed to wander back into the vicinity of the topic that originally fascinated me, which is this.
Humans may posture about local authorization, right, authorizing myself, I'm self-authorizing and so forth, and men are more inclined to do this than others.
But primarily, our species, the strange features of our cognition, mysterious features, orient us profoundly and often invisibly to an incredible sensitivity to extrinsic authorization.
And language is evidence of this, in part because we rarely, especially as adults, we rarely neologize.
We don't bend the tool of language to our purposes. Rather, we enact the pre-bent forms inherited from others and from culture and so on.
And those forms trap us in many ways, as has been remarked by insightful people throughout history.
Our tools use us. Language shapes our mind to its structures, suppositions, functions, derivations, distinctions.
Someone was saying, I think it was some gentleman talking about the alchemy of happiness, which I think is a chapter from an enormous book by Ibn Arabi.
They were saying something like, the one who speaks inflicts a wound. They were talking about the one who heals all wounds.
And they were talking about specific features of Arabic that associate speaking and wounding.
This is very important to pay attention to. We will almost never hear anything like this from our culture, which proudly wears the stigma of many linguistic injurers.
When we think of writers in English, we use the word author.
And similarly, those to whom we are subject are called authorities.
And when we have been given permission, or, please help me find this word I've been looking for for five years, similar to a mandate.
When we are given permission or position to enact or enforce a mandate, then we ourselves are authorized in the sense of a policeman.
Now one of the most staggering things to do is to deconstruct, and I encourage you to do this, I'll get you started, deconstruct the military ranks in English linguistically.
Because it's certainly not fucking clear what a sergeant is, and isn't it interesting that the lowest rank is called private.
And I want you to explore the origins of each of the rank names, but particularly notice the one that I'll unpack a little bit for you, Lieutenant.
In English, this word has few obvious progenitor phonemes, but hidden in the structure of the word is something blatant.
A Lieutenant is the one who occupies the authorized position in lieu of the one who is actually authorized and conveys authorization to those under its command.
And if you want to see into the truly science fictiony, bizarre underpinnings of authorization in human cultures and consciousness, look at the military, you'll get a lot of trippy stuff there.
Okay.
In most religions, authorization stems like formally in the structured aspect
from a system of initiations and the conveyances of authority from those already authorized.
So for example, the Pope in Catholicism, but in many older religions, authorization arises from a kind of profound submission.
When the topic of God arises, humans are inclined, especially humans who are not particularly...
profound adorational servitude of the divine is one of the sources of authorization. So that's very strange. That means that from one perspective, the slave is authorized, the master is not.
And this is language you will hear commonly. It sounds very strange to Western ears, usually, but you'll hear this very commonly in mystical Islam and Sufism.
Now, both are authorized, actually, and neither one is, you know, but the slave has the better position. And it doesn't necessarily mean that they're enslaved by other humans, though it could, in some cases.
For Western minds, this seems like the complete inversion of how we would usually think. The master is at liberty, the slave is constrained, viciously constrained in many cases.
Authorization. So you can see that if we have a thought or a belief, or if we have an objection to any statement, concept, idea, model, evaluation, measurement, particularly,
measuring and authorization are tightly linked in the history of human cognition. The one who measures correctly must be divinely inspired, guided, or authorized.
We even call lords and kings and queens, right, we call them rulers. And that's not just because they make the rules, it's because they measure.
You will see them depicted with implements of measurement, rods and rings and so on.
Rods and rings are what you use to measure, and if you have a rod and a ring, your measuring will be superior to that of any who have only one of them.
They're probably, you can imagine the situation historically in the development of our species. Let's say 20,000 years ago, in a place where there was something that resembled cities.
And beings from the sky or from beyond the sky come, they themselves select or forge a being that can directly communicate with humans, either mind to mind or in their language, or both, but probably the former.
It's a very strange shirt, or logo, it says unmarked limit, and there's a face of a panda, and there's some olive branches, it seems, beneath it.
Certainly.
And it says since 1975.
By the way, in case it's not obvious, the whole branding thing exists in modern society because it captures authorization.
In our time, corporations, governments, and tribes take the place of kings and gods, kings, queens and gods.
And so, you know, the just do it slogan, and other slogans.
By the way, notice about just the structure of that phrase, right, just do it, essentially is telling you that you are authorized to just do it.
In a sense, it's saying, recognize local authorization for anything you want, anything, just do it.
You don't have to think, you don't have to refer to authority.
If it arises, then just go ahead, complete permission, absolute permission, which is sort of the opposite of authorization.
Hello.
Thank you, come on in.
Thanks.
By the way, just there, I had to show my identification to those who determine who is authorized to enter the botanical gardens by virtue of their, who is authorized to enter by virtue of where they live,
by virtue of geography, who must pay instead because they are not a San Francisco resident.
So any of those people who, all people who aren't residents and aren't children under 12 must pay.
And then also those who should be denied access.
So gatekeepers are lieutenants in this sense.
They serve a central authorizer who is often depicted in religion and consciousness as a scrutinizer.
I think there's a Frank Zappa album in which the central scrutinizer plays a prominent role, which it also does in various forms of psychosis, schizophrenia, presuming that such labels refer to meaningful situations in the consciousness of human beings, which I suppose they both do and don't.
Also in consciousness, the coherence of consciousness often depends on a reliable structure of authorization and scrutiny, authorization and oversight.
And I want to contrast that oversight with the underside I was suggesting earlier associated with the word understanding, literally to stand beneath, to support, to lift up, to lift above me.
And in any actual relationship, the best kind of thing and the thing that I was asking that we could have an agreement about with my friend in our conversation yesterday was,
if you will lift me up above where you're at, I will in turn lift you to a position above where you lifted me,
and then we may proceed together to continue to enact such a process, I sometimes call this leap the leapfrog game.
