Hey everybody. Thank you for joining me. May we learn and grow together.
There are millions of human experiences right now that are in agony.
Having just been injured, or had a heart attack, or being subject to terrifying illness,
irresolvable injury, pain, confusion, fear, hope.
Siren reminds me of this, and it's a singular and very overwhelming sound.
It affects me physically when I hear it, not because I imagine images.
In fact, there's no way to explain.
It's surprising the degree to which we are inclined to trust explanations, or authorize them as worthy of guiding our perspectives.
I've just been listening to Jordan Peterson and Slavo Gizek, whose name is difficult to pronounce, speaking on Marxism, something I personally have never been particularly attracted to.
Though it is a common thread running through many of the branches of the tree of artists and musicians and poets and writers and actors and performers,
to some subset of which I identify with as my people, those with whom I feel perhaps most at home, though there are other ways I could describe my people.
And my people, you know, there's a hierarchy in a sense.
It's not the same thing as a decision tree, and an explanation will absolutely fail to encompass it, yet I can have a go at describing something.
First, in priority, in primacy, is my felt sense that is profoundly deep, and I hesitate, it's so deep, I hesitate to move my mouth about it and make words about it.
I hesitate out of reverence, out of wonder, out of awe, and I hesitate because when we hand these fundamental essential aspects of our humanity, when we hand them over to language and description and models,
I'm reminded of putting a fish in the desert or a bird at the bottom of the sea.
My soul cannot flow into a skeleton.
Surprisingly, it appears to have the innate capacity to flow partly, if not completely, into other living beings.
But there is no language or description or knowledge that will ever come near to expressing or encompassing this, this much I feel confident of.
But in primacy, having precedence over all other things, fundamentally, not in a logical fashion, in logic and thought and threat detection and response and opportunism and all of these things, all of this gets muddled up.
But what has primacy is that all of the beings in all of time are not merely my people than they are.
I am their hands, I am their hearts, I am their minds, I am their breath, I am their blood, I am their bones.
I belong to them.
I am their embodiment locally, uniquely, personally.
So, you know, I do not have, I think first I just feel a sense of inexplicable affinity with all beings, all moments, all minds, all places, all circumstances.
And that probably sounds a little bit confused because it just says that I have an affinity with everything.
Nonetheless, I know I could speak poetically and be a little clearer.
And by the way, you'll probably notice me looking down a lot during this video because I'm searching for something I encountered the other day and couldn't identify.
It was a small insect, it was extremely fast, faster than any ordinary land insect.
So I'm watching in the hope of perhaps encountering it again because it's very uncommon that I encounter a new insect, new to me.
I'm also trying not to step on creatures as I walk because I realize that the privilege I have of walking, which I consider a privilege,
and I have been denied of it before, so I know what it's like to be without it, costs lives.
It's not reasonably possible that I can avoid every living thing under my footfalls, but I can be aware and have some concern
and realize that if living beings must give their lives so that I can merely walk, then perhaps a responsibility, perhaps I inherit from that fact an array of responsibilities.
I think so. I feel so. To do something noble, trustworthy, beautiful, honorable, in response.
There's a tree of peoples, and I feel different and unique affinities with each of them.
And there are classes of people, and what we might refer to as types, personalities, and intellects, and hearts, behaviors that I have more affinity with.
I tend to feel a strong affinity with my, what might be referred to as my ethnic progenitors, the peoples from whom my grandparents and great grandparents and my parents descend.
And these are Europeans, primarily. At least that's how we call them today.
And I feel a strong affinity, in general, with all the different, with the whole continuum of ages of human beings.
Each of the ages of the humans is like an unimaginably profuse flower of wonder and beauty.
Though, unfortunately for many of us, there's a lot of crystallization that happens in, as we leave young adulthood, there's a tendency, I think, as a result of the incredibly toxic contexts in which we're engaged,
to crystallize inside, to harden our hearts, to crystallize our opinions, to stop learning and start declaring, to tell, instead of to participate and ask and sense.
And that's unfortunate, but I can still feel affinity, even with such people, because I can see them with my heart, rather than my mind, alone.
And I can identify with them because I, myself, have experienced crystallization, even though I've been lucky or aspire enough to maintain some fluid awareness of potential and transformation,
and to leave the skin of yesterday's seemingly authoritative beliefs and ideas behind as I take the risk of molting, of passing through the phases of human life.
With grace, one hoax.
As I pursue the promise of something I might call the fulfillment of the incredible privilege of my human birth.
So I've been making friends with the Blue Jays today, by making little offerings.
And actually there's a couple of Blue Jays, and they seem to recognize me now.
And I'm gonna have to get some better offerings than these kind of old, somewhat stale sunflower seeds.
They're pretty darn fond of peanuts, but I imagine there's all kinds of things they might like.
And one of them didn't really want the sunflower seeds when I placed them on the asphalt, but was interested in them when I placed them in the dirt.
And when I noticed that that bird didn't want the ones on the asphalt, I began to, you know, think about it.
What's the problem? Can it sense? These are kind of stale. Is it just not like them?
But then I realized that it might be hard to pick up sunflower seeds from the hard asphalt.
Because it could hurt your beak. And it might make a lot of shock as you sort of pack to pick them up, which is the natural way of doing things.
There's a little mouse. Or maybe a vole.
I can make a little offering to the rodent people too.
I've always been astonished by the courage necessary to pursue life as a small animal.
The constant and incredible danger.
And I've often opined that if humans deeply understood courage, there wouldn't be lions on the shields of great warriors.
There would be mice. Sparrows.
It wouldn't be the eagle, right? It was the image of courage and power.
It would be the scarab, the dung beetle. Apparently one of the strongest animals on Earth.
Also famously a shit-disturber.
So in the tree of peoples, I have all kinds of affinities, but I can often find affinity with nearly anyone.
Unless of course the situation or context sucks the oxygen out of the room, producing a very strong threat.
Or something I'm inclined habitually to become reactive to, whether my reaction is one of attraction or revulsion.
But I generally feel among my own with artists.
It's a huge generalization, I mean.
And I've lived in such a small sort of circle and traveled so little in my life, nearly none.
But though I know there are creative paradises in places like Prague or France.
Other places in every, hopefully in nearly every nation, but in some places the spirit of creativity seems to have kind of set up shop.
And I feel a bit deprived, because I've only in my adult life had a few brief periods where, or occasions where I knew,
oh, these are my people, they recognize me, I recognize them.
We love each other immediately, we feel inspired and refreshed and rejuvenated by each other's playful and clever, you know.
Relation.
Now, when I'm here in nature, my gratitude to be able to be away from the constructs and structures and institutions,
even in this limited way where I am in a park in the middle of a city and can hear the traffic around me.
All of the living beings, they don't have to decide that I am their people,
but I have decided that they are my people, which in a way means I've eliminated sides altogether.
Here's my young.
One of my new Bluejake friends going to have to get some peanuts or other nuts and things to bring.
So when I'm here, I am inclined to mistrust my intellect because to inhabit it, I have to depart from the kind of active, nonverbal,
heartful sense of communion and revitalization that I feel here.
As if when I breathe in, all of the living beings enter my body to nourish and renew me.
And when I exhale, I let go of the constructs and the intellect and the culture and I embrace living time,
which is a network of beings, not a mechanical process.
And living time is different in every being, but they contribute to the superposition of that.
And it is in that superposition that I am so lucky to be able to participate as a human being.
And to be informed by and inform it.
And when I use these words I don't mean to contribute information so much as I mean to meaningly participate in mutual recognition and communion.
In remembrance, in reverence, in honor, in wonder, in novelty.
I found a place where the nymphs of grasshoppers are inclined to spend their youth and they stay in the same area as they grow.
So as I visit them, I can see their forms maturing from tiny little nymphs to larger and they're going through instars.
They're going through molts.
And I'll revisit that molting topic a little later if I remember.
I had the urge to suggest an experiment and it's not my intention to instruct anyone.
It's merely to suggest something.
That I hope those who decide to try it might find nourishing or refreshing.
Find some being.
It could be a bird or an ant.
And of course this experiment may be very familiar to some of my listeners.
But I'm fairly sure it will be unfamiliar to others.
A few in particular I can think of.
Find some living being in which you have interest.
A bee, a bird, a raccoon, a mouse, a tree.
And in the first experiment, I'll ask that you practice seeing through, meaning causing to become transparent.
All that you know about this being, representationally.
So I want you to throw away the fact, I will use a tree, to throw away the fact that you know it's a tree.
Pretend I don't know what that is.
I want you to throw away the fact that you know it's an organism and pretend you don't know what that is.
And the fact that it's a fir tree, or that it makes wood, or all of the things, just let all that stuff drop for a moment.
And that's the moment of sort of clearing out the cup of the heart.
Let all that knowledge just fall away, so that you can gaze in unencumbered wonder upon whatever it is you select.
It could be a little cactus, a flower.
But we'll continue with the tree for a moment.
And I want you to practice seeing the tree, not with your intellect, feeling into the tree, not with your thinking, with your heart.
Bring the living being into your heart.
See the living being through the sense of your emotional core.
Just allow your emotions to slowly emerge from their, you know, often nervously protected subterranean dwellings.
And become your senses. See the tree with your heart.
Imagine it inside your heart. Imagine your heart inside it.
Imagine you have just discovered your long lost best friend, who has always loved you and whom you have always loved.
But this love has been occluded by knowledge and convenience and tasks and constructs and ideas and agendas and so on.
Let all that stuff fall away.
And just bring the living being into your heart.
And see the living, learn to open the eyes of your heart toward the living being.
To know it with your core, not your mind.
And feel the beauty, the mystery, the awe and the wonder that were natural to most of us as children.
And if you practice this over time, your heart will learn that it is safe to come forth into your experience.
And become the shining star at the core of your experience.
That illuminates all things so gently and so beautifully that they become transcendent.
Not in language, but in experience.
And if you practice this, you will discover many astonishing things about living beings.
But perhaps, even if you already knew what I'm talking about, there's another little mouse.
You will find some that surprise you. Oh, there are little birds near the little mouse.
I think we might have been having a bird mouse party.
The loss of this was the loss of our participation in living places and in the transcendental union of all life.
And the retrieval of this, even the tiniest success, is astonishingly profound, rejuvenating, refreshing.
I think I had a second experiment in mind. Oh, yes, yes, of course.
So you could take things a bit further and establish a relationship with a living place, a stream, a tree, the creatures of a living place,
a mouse that comes each day at a certain time to a certain place, the raccoon family that passes through your yard at night,
a local skunk, the crow's ravens and magpies and blue jays, or even a praying mantis, a beehive.
Because these things we have, these beings we have words for,
will naturally extend your humanity, your awareness, your health, your capacity to understand your dreaming, your recovery.
And long ago, everyone, very long ago, all the humans they knew, they knew more than what I'm speaking about here, much more.
But perhaps over time they began to operationalize those relationships, and that was the beginning of tragedy.
And this is something I'm sort of generally against. What are you? You are a little flying creature.
Tiny, tiny little creature.
Size is deceptive as we learned when we compare the courage of the lion who can easily obliterate most threats and the mouse who must survive by awareness and caution.
And courage.
So for those of you who are not already familiar with what I'm suggesting, if you so desire,
establish relationships that are meaningful with living beings, to the tree you can bring water, or an offering of soil, or an offering of some herb that is precious to you,
or that you simply love the qualities of, or the scent of, something fragrant.
Tobacco was a common offering, apparently, to hear it told, among American indigenous, some American indigenous peoples.
But that has partly to do with how they learned of its existence and their relationship with that plant.
But what you may eventually discover is that the world is something very different from what the humans tend to think and enact.
It is the birthplace and lifeplace of billions of unique, anciently evolved intelligences.
And when I say ancient, there's a secret about time and nature that until you discover it, you really won't understand time at all.
But when I say ancient, what I mean is the organisms of the earth are far older than what the humans consider to be the flat age of the universe.
Here we have the reverse of the creation story problem, where some group of ideologues claim the earth is only 5,000 years old.
I'm telling you, it's countless trillions of years old because, well, due to the nature of the relationship between organisms and how they invent temporalities,
and then by connecting those distinct temporalities create superpositions in time.
And we can see this just by understanding that the flat age of the universe is 14.5 billion years, let's say.
Well, if each person is a unique temporal bubble, then with 7.5 billion people on earth,
we need only go around the sun three times to have had more diverse temporality at the human order than there is years, flat years in the history of the universe.
We would have 22.5 billion years, 22.5 billion life years of human experience in three orbits of the sun.
All figures are here approximate.
Now of course the humans contain trillions of cells, so it gets very sophisticated very quickly, but living time is unendingly, staggeringly shocking to encounter directly with consciousness
in even the slightest revelation of its qualities in nature.
And so as I walk around this garden with you, I am participating, we are participating in living time.
And it obliterates calendars and clocks.
It just totally abolishes them.
And our bodies begin to relate by being immersed in the flowing water of lifetime and the anciently evolved intelligences that were the companions of mankind as our species evolved.
So these experiments, these practices I suggest gently to those of you who wish to try them out or pursue them deeply.
I think you will find treasure if you follow this very fuzzy map, and not just once but every time you follow it.
Insects such as grasshoppers and praying mantises, they go through formal life phases and having their skeletons on the outside, so to speak.
In other words, they're not really skeletons, they're hard structure, they're crusts like our bones are, but they're not really skeletons, though we call them exoskeletons.
And I think they're primarily comprised of a substance referred to as chitin, which maybe has some properties in common with our fingernails.
It's not merely insects that go that mold.
Reptiles shed their skins and probably go through life phases, but those of the insects are particularly distinct.
And with each phase the insect gains new abilities and strength until the final phase, which represents the phase whose next molt.
His death, in which not merely the outer shell is thrown off, but physical manifestation itself is left behind.
And we humans, we have life phases, we refer to them, I think fairly crudely, and we're kind of not really aware of them, because there's only two or three really, and nobody's an expert at this.
And I think we have at a minimum seven, or nine.
And our molts as individuals are primarily internal, and it might even be for humans that we are complex enough that there are a set of different aspects of our humanity.
That each develop uniquely within us at rates that are both generally shared, but unique to each individual.
So for example, when I was little, I developed intellectually and emotionally, in the sense of being sensitive, if sensitivity is development, relatively quickly.
But my intellectual development is what really stood out.
Making some adjustments here.
So I learned to read very young, and I was relatively articulate at a young age.
But other children developed other aspects, they developed in other aspects more quickly than me.
I wasn't quick on the uptake, for example, in the kind of intelligence that allows one to manipulate others intentionally.
One might say I was naive in that sense, and in a couple of other senses.
My romantic developments were fraught with peril, and still remain, to some degree, highly idealized, and based on fairy tales and things, which is a little bit embarrassing to admit.
My point, though, is that we each develop different aspects of ourselves at different rates.
According to something we could understand as a generalized template, but some of us vary widely from the distinctions the template imposes and the timelines they impose.
And there are aspects of myself that now, at my present age, I am still discovering and developing.
