So there's this sort of, what is it, like a, as if I contained different animals that molt and developed at different times within me.
And these animals together comprise my human being, if you'll admit the analogy.
But I think we undergo molting internally.
And while there are, you know, signs, right, I don't look like a three-year-old, I don't look like a 20-year-old anymore.
While our external bodies do change, we don't have a, we can't tell when we're molting the way the mantis knows that it will molt.
And so finds a place appropriate to this trial where it will become immobile for 24 to 48 hours and be completely incapable of detecting or defending itself from threats.
And should the temperature go wrong or it rain or some other undesirable circumstance obtain, the mantis will die in the molt.
The molt is in a way an encounter with death.
But if it succeeds, it emerges with a new body, with new abilities, new senses.
We humans are insensitive to our own molting, throwing off of old skins.
And sometimes we try to do it on purpose, either perhaps in response to, like a felt internal sense, oh, it is time, or in response to the idea that one can throw off one's old skin.
So to speak, one's old way of being, one's old no longer useful aspects of behavior and thought and allegiance, subjugation, dominance, submission.
So perhaps we are a creature that has some capacity to influence the time of our molting, but as individuals who experience life phases, there is a natural temporality to these processes that is ordinarily invisible to us.
We often speak.
I do not know if that was made by a bird or a human, but I think by a human.
It occurs to me that if I think of our species as one creature,
and I should mention that when I, it's just my custom to think about individual organisms and beings as both individuals
and the embodiment of all of their kind at every order, so that a bird is the embodiment of all birds, but also of the birds around here and also of the kind of bird it is and so on and so forth.
But I do not keep these things in consciousness.
I don't think about them.
It's just my custom to imagine relations in this way so that when I am kind to some creature, I imagine that its people learn of this, not because it tells its people, because it is its people.
When I am gentle, the living things learn that I am gentle, and perhaps they will be gentle with me too, though it's not a guarantee.
It's not an economic relationship.
It's a reverential one.
But if I think of our species as a single animal and the evolution of our species as a series of molts where we faced massive, sudden transformation and thus we're ourselves transformed.
The metaphor doesn't fit perfectly because, I mean, the analogy doesn't fit perfectly for lots of reasons, but one of the things that doesn't happen is that in, for example, grasshoppers or praying mantises who are trapped for a while in their shell and when they're vulnerable and then they break through and they have a new body.
It can go wrong.
They can emerge deformed.
Bad things can happen.
They can get eaten while they're trapped in the exoskeleton.
They will break through.
The temperature can be bad.
Humidity or other conditions can be bad.
They can be infected with something or parasitized.
Bad things can happen, but generally the molt pretty much either succeeds or it fails with some few exceptions and usually if it fails, they die.
But with whatever is happening with our species, we can emerge from a molt phase incredibly deformed and then just adapt our sort of identity as animals to the strange deformations that resulted from the last encounter with death and transformation that might have been our molt phase.
And this could explain in part why our species as a whole, generally, which is skeptical about generalizations, but hey, it doesn't mean I never use them, is biophobic.
I mean, the irony of that is unimaginable.
We who were one of the crowning achievements of organismal evolution on Earth, we to whom all the organisms contributed unimaginable gifts, we look back upon them with terror?
And the sense that we must put a stop to this burgeoning life force that is in fact the origin of our bodies and minds moment to moment?
It would be like if my hand decided that the rest of my body were extremely dangerous and undesirable because the hand wasn't controlling it, so it started attacking me in my sleep.
And this is the kind of insanity our advanced species is intimately prone to and has long been, though not forever and not everywhere.
There are other examples.
But there are no necessary examples of paradisical, you know, perfect humans.
As I, yeah, I'll not tell that dark story.
It's easy to idealize beings, human beings who we intend to use as an analogy to show that there's another way.
Without recognizing that those to whom we refer may have their own very complex and sometimes terrifying peculiarities.
And ways of enacting violence and scapegoating and blame shifting and prosecution and torture and rape that we find generally reprehensible or inexplicable.
But my point or the direction that I'm going in actually is just to notice that I think our species is about to undergo a molt event.
And because we have no models or traditions or knowledge or practices around this, most of us are either confused as fuck, terrified, or telling ourselves fairy stories, you know.
And there's two things that come to mind.
I'll continue with my talk, but I just don't want to lose them from the brilliant orations I heard from Jordan Peterson, who I don't claim intellectual filial association with, right?
But the guy's really brilliant.
Whether I agree with what he thinks and says is a completely different matter. I learn every time I hear him talk.
Someone was really shocked.
A friend of mine was very shocked when she asked me, you know, if you've heard of this guy, I was like, yeah, I think he's really brilliant.
And she thought I was having her on.
And I said, no, you know, brilliant doesn't mean you agree with another person's positions or arguments, or it means that you recognize that they're skillful.
And though Jordan, like all of us human beings, has moments where he demonstrates deep unskillfulness.
And I know I have, so I can relate with that too.
We shouldn't take those moments as indicative of, you know, the quality of his thought.
Anyway, in beginning, his critique of the Communist Manifesto, he said, he made first some, you know, academic and stylistic critiques.
And one of the things he said was, I think, something like, I never encountered a litany of wrong ideas as consistently wrong as I encountered in this book, which I thought was really funny.
But then he said something very startling and brilliant, which was, most ideas are wrong.
Wow. Who'd have thought that?
Most ideas are wrong.
And he said, you know, the goal isn't to find some idea, you know, build a castle there and start flying flags from the parapets.
The goal is to find some idea and throw everything you have against it.
Try to tear it down every way you possibly can, because otherwise you're liable, and this is my own language, to fall under the spell of the fact that you had an idea.
And I know that problem really intimately.
Nature doesn't have ideas, she has beings.
I trust it. It just seems implicitly truthful.
And transcendental, at the same time, they're not constructs, they're beings.
They have, like, persona and weird fucking transcendental qualities that don't fit in human language and humans have long forgot about and so on and so forth.
But I loved when he said that.
And I'm trying to remember and hopefully it will come to me something that Shizek said.
Because I had the pairing in my mind.
Let me see.
I can't find it now. Perhaps it will return to me.
Typical Ryan head scratching my head trying to remember.
So I think our species might be undergoing a molt, and that doesn't mean necessarily that we're going to advance, we may, and I think likely will emerge the survivors into chaos.
The chaos of the attempt to reform, to reform.
Something resembling society, but because our people are infected with constructs and institutions, which are like the projections of our fears and desires into the mirror of models and the intellect.
We're going to have to now compete not only against the disastrous forces that are certain to descend upon us from the living world in response to our catastrophic malfeasance and misbehavior.
It's the wrong word. Violation.
If you push really hard on a concrete wall, it doesn't have to push back.
But if you punch it, you break your hand.
And the humans have been obliterating that from which our own minds and bodies emerge, wantonly now, for a few hundred years assisted by modern technologies in such a way that it's like you're pushing into something that can absorb a lot of force.
But after absorbing a certain amount of that force, it hits you back with that force magnified a thousandfold from seven different directions, not one.
And that's the kind of pushing we've been doing, and that's the kind of reaction that seems incumbent upon not just our species, but all of life.
Because that's what we've been pushing against.
The hubris of our species is generated nemesis.
We've been fucking with the world until nemesis finally emerges from that rape to answer our incredible confusion.
But yeah, I think one way to think about what's happening is that we're facing a speciation event as human beings.
And it's going to be really confusing because time has changed, meaning has changed, value has changed.
And when I say changed, I mean they've become ambiguous.
They've gone from being relatively reliable, even though they were fictional, to being really unreliable.
And they're going to keep getting less reliable as more and more effects are stirred into this kind of soupy, bubbling moment of transformation, or epoch of transformation, if you will.
And I don't know the life phases of a species like ours because I am one.
And I've not seen what results from the molts, except that I am one of those results.
Our people in this time are one of the, you know, we are the children of a molte phase, of a ladder of molte phases throughout the evolution both of our bodies and our consciousness, the development of our consciousness.
So I have no idea what the next phase looks like.
It better not look like joining machines to human bodies.
It's an incredibly catastrophically misguided idea.
Though, I formulate and express that idea into a machine in my hand.
A machine that represents something like an intelligent companion.
And I'm going to branch off here for a moment because I've mostly finished my little molte analogy.
I think we had, when we came to birth, an intelligent companion that was invisible, and maybe an array of them.
And the fact that I have this thing in my hand, which you can imagine in the not too distant future, might no longer be in my hand, but might orbit me.
Or might like hang out with me and levitating with its little camera and, you know, ability to receive and transmit calls and so on and so forth.
I think we had a satellite, or better yet, we were the satellite intelligence of something incredibly profound and staggeringly intelligent and ancient,
but also beautifully friendly and altruistic and something that was a protector, not an intruder or interloper or surveiller.
So I think this technology that I'm holding in my hand is one of the representations of that companion.
Our cars are another, for some people, horses and camels, embodied an aspect of this relationship.
The aspect of it that was associated with the capacity to travel, not necessarily in physical space, but in relational space, into the heart of the tree, into the mind of the beehive, into the spirit of the sun.
And this may sound, I suppose it could sound all different kinds of ways depending on your approach to it.
Nonetheless, it is my experience that not merely our minds, but our souls, and the development of human consciousness,
the evolution of our minds, is directly related to the story that I am telling.
And I think, as our species evolved, one of the repercussions of the molt phases was that the age, the phase of our individual lives in which we departed relation with our companion,
became lower and lower and lower. And at first, as we got older, the intimacy with the companion became deeper and richer and more sophisticated.
But after a time, after a certain molt phase in human history, it began to retreat.
Still, some few people discovered it in their elderly age, but it became common for that relationship to disappear earlier and earlier in life.
And one of the reasons this was so is that the process of in-languaging and in-culturation, to which we subject our children, thinking it a great benefit or a gift,
actually it shunts the energy of that relationship into constructs and representational thought and language and ideas.
And so that relationship becomes occluded at a very early age, but I am certain that very young children, by and large, each one uniquely, is aware of this relationship.
They are aware of this relationship. And before they have language, they are wondering why it seems to be missing in the adults they are surrounded by,
or even worse, represented by some kind of bizarre story from a book about a very strange god.
I'm an angry god, a pissed off god.
So, you know, I'm not asking you to believe me, but if you find it useful entertain the ideas that I explore with you and see what you make of them for yourself.
But be careful about this last idea, because it's perhaps one of the most powerful ideas.
And remember, too, what Jordan said, most ideas are wrong. I like that.
I really feel unbalanced. It's so important to present something from Zizek, since I mentioned Peterson, but I lost the thread.
Yes, this companion thing, be careful with it.
I think our souls have a natural companion, but it would be very confusing and dangerous for a modern person who is not well disciplined and careful to reestablish that relationship.
It would overwhelm them.
The children are so flexible and sort of unformed that they can sustain relation with something shocking and transcendental that adults would flee in terror from.
Because that thing would threaten all the constructs that the adults, all the scaffolding, that the adults identify with and think of as themselves, children don't have the scaffolding, so it's not threatenable.
The little ones, the very little children.
Moulting internally is a crisis.
Usually, though sometimes it happens very smoothly and quickly, entering a new life phase, but this analog of molting at the level of our species, this is not going to go well.
To say we are unprepared would be the grossest kind of understatement.
Oh, I remember what it was Gizek said.
He said to those people who were kind of saying like, oh, you know, yeah, it's going to be difficult, but there's a light at the end of the tunnel.
He would say, yes, that's the light of the next train that's going to run us over.
He rejected optimism and I largely agree with him.
I think our species is about to get the kind of really severe.
We're going to experience incredibly severe repercussions of our longstanding, belligerent violation of the true and the sacred and the living world.
Not because the true and the sacred and the living world are angry or vengeful.
It's almost a mechanical result where if you just keep pushing, if you keep cutting the rope that you're hanging off on the mountainside by, at some point it breaks and you can yell at your hand or the knife or the rope or the mountain, pretend you were innocent, whatever you want.
But that rope is the history and future of life on earth and our people have been hacking away at that thing.
Full force 24-7 with everything they can throw at it for at least the past 300 years, if not longer.
And for the past 100 years, we've just been obliterating it.
So that thing's going to break and it's not nature being mean.
There's nothing vengeful.
It's more like physics, right?
You definitely don't want to be hacking on the umbilical cord that connects you to nature through which you receive the possibility of having a mind moment to moment.
Or of eating food or surviving the sun.
The sun will kill you.
If the earth doesn't buffer that stuff, you're just going to die.
The moon protects us from impacts.
The atmosphere protects us from the fierceness of the sun.
And if you start trying to mechanize that protection, it would be like an act of unimaginable...
It's the same kind of hubristic, stupid ignorance that gets us slaughtered en masse.
What would be an analogy for the stupidity of that?
It would be like pretending...
Okay, it would be like taking a guy with heart disease and putting a clock, replacing his dying heart with a clock.
It would be that stupid.
Trying to geo-engineer a response to global transformation of climate, which I think is...
...multiply determined, right?
There's one cause.
Humans have a huge role to play in it.
But there's also seasons of the relationship between the sun and the earth.
There's transformations that happen to the earth.
There's transformations that happen in the sun.
There's transformations that happen in other planets.
The whole thing's a system. It all affects each other.
But down here on earth, humans have been busily obliterating the buffer...
...that can protect us during times of sudden, unexpected transformation...
...and pretending to be innocent.
Or even they know the right thing to do.
That's gonna make for a really challenging molt phase, to put it mildly.
Prepare for chaos.
Prepare for apocalypse.
Because that looks like what's on the menu.
And the menu's only got a couple things on it, as far as I can tell.
I don't personally...
...I have no idea whether there's some reasonable chance of me surviving much longer...
...or what will take me out.
I've lived many of the life phases of my humanity already.
And I've lived longer, perhaps, than many humans in history.
I've had that privilege.
And misspent it, in many ways.
But now I feel better, because I balance the equation between Pearson and Zizek.
And now, having dwelt in the kingdom of my intellect, I'll return to my heart.
And enjoy the setting of the sun.
Thank you for being human.
For being interested.
And for walking with me while I get my body's exercise and also perhaps my mind.
And with a little luck, my heart's too.
Bye-bye for now.
