This is one of the most disgusting human beings I've ever had the displeasure of being subject to.
And ordinarily I don't pay a lot of attention to politics and news, but in my current job I'm somewhat required to.
And it's a painful and very illness-like process.
It is miserable, it's immiserating.
But yeah, this is one of the most vile human beings I've ever had the displeasure of knowing of the existence of.
Or of having to speak about openly, having to consider.
So there's the elite, wealthy, sort of corporate owners, the slave owners at the top, just like there always were.
And these represent the kings and queens of the ancient colonial, you know, the old colonial cultures,
that sent ships of pirates over here to obliterate and wipe out and steal the land of the Native American peoples and the Native South American peoples.
And the same thing was done in Africa and Australia and pretty much New Zealand, wherever it could be done, right?
And we didn't have to watch that, but we are still the beneficiaries of it, and we didn't participate in it directly,
but again we still benefit from all of that atrocity and violation and killing and rape and horror.
And so for this reason I say we are not noble. How can we be noble with a history like this?
Especially if we won't admit it and atone for it somehow, right?
And it's not really possible to fully atone, but we could at least make some gestures, meaningful gestures toward atonement,
both as individuals and as societal segments and as a culture.
And I think we must somehow. Whether or not we do it together is a different question and a more complex topic.
And what could motivate us to do that is another complex topic, but there are topics we have to explore.
We need to, I think, we being everybody in the United States who lives here,
and in South America and in Africa and in New Zealand and Australia and all the places where there yet remain some modest indigenous segment.
So we've got the sort of elite, the slave owners that are the modern equivalent of the aristocracy or kings and queens.
Underneath them we have the prison-military-industrial complex.
Our country has spent trillions of dollars on the military.
And what that means is it's not just that we spent trillions of dollars there and more than a few trillions.
And by the way, if you think the accounting of that is correct, you're crazy because where trillions of dollars are the figures we're dealing with,
you can hide billions of dollars of theft all over the place.
You can make vast fortunes just disappear. You can do all kinds of magic tricks.
We've got the prison-military-industrial complex at the top, and the military is by far the sort of greatest beneficiary.
And it's a gigantic, mechanically-structured fiction that protects primarily, in our country, the extremely wealthy,
and can instantaneously turn on everybody else.
Anyone who wanted to foment something resembling a revolution would quickly discover that the military complex in the United States
is effectively unopposable unless they can be convinced to avoid turning against their own people.
Let me check something here for a moment.
This is a young raven.
The young raven is still learning what's edible and what isn't.
And that's the parent over there, I think, or possibly a sibling.
It's fascinating to watch them learn and grow. They're very precocious and beautiful.
I love every ball of life, but particularly fond of corvids, the family of birds that ravens and blue jays and magpies and crows belong to.
And this guy here, I don't know if you can see, but he's got a little red at the edge of his or her beak.
And he's curious about me, right? He knows that I might feed him.
It's conceivable. He's been fed by other humans, you can tell.
So he's coming over to kind of check out he or she and check out what's going on and see, like, is this edible? Is that edible?
Is that food? What's this? Oh, a flower. Oh, some grass. Maybe I can eat that.
And successfully finding some, you know, early successful foraging, learning about which things are food and which things aren't.
Trying to understand the nature of the world in which this creature exists as an extension of me and I as an extension of him or her.
And yes, I use the traditional gender pronouns. String me up if you need to.
So the military complex is one of the primary beneficiaries and it's not really a person, although there's a hierarchy in there of pay grades and power.
It's a construct, yeah. So it's different from the people at the top that actually benefit, but it protects their benefits and ensures them.
And then there's the corporate ecosystem, corporate industrial ecosystem, which serves the military industrial complex and keeps the slaves happy by producing little chotchkies for them to buy and exchange,
as though these were the meaningful results of the investment of human lives and behavior and activity and work, what we call work,
which for the vast majority of Americans is essentially just slavery. And it's slavery to roles so degrading.
It's funny, I've heard people say like, I wouldn't do that to an animal, as if animals should be degraded more than humans.
But I would say like, I wouldn't do that to a machine. I wouldn't even want a machine to have a role that deprived.
But what I really mean is just that the humans are acting out the roles that would otherwise be that in a more enlightened society wouldn't exist.
They're so reprehensibly deprived of meaning and identity and value that we wouldn't consider, we would never get started with such agendas, let alone continue them.
So the corporate ecosystem, the corporate infrastructural ecosystem is essentially where most of the slaves work.
And there's a hierarchy in there of degrees of torture. One moment, someone keeps messaging me. Let me see who this is.
All right, I'm also a slave at the moment.
For quite some time I was independent enough that I was kind of on top of the slave pile. I didn't have bosses, but presently I have a boss.
And I'm heading home to do further daily service in my little role as slave.
And it's a miserable role, I have to say.
In any case, one of the living beehives, one of the natural beehives in the park, there's a couple in these two trees here, this is one of them that I love.
It's up in that knot hole.
So on the mountain of Agony, on the fucking seven rings of the modern Dante's hell purgatory or whatever you want to call it, there's these layers, right?
And they get broader as they go down, which means the populations inside them grow geometrically.
The people at the very top is a minute fraction of human beings.
The military industrial complex is very thoroughly populated with slaves, but has a relatively modest number of highly placed, highly protected masters.
And the corporate ecology is similar.
And then you have the sort of baseline stuff of the middle class in the United States, the truly poor,
and then the population of homeless people and actual just straight up prisoners in our prison systems, which have become for profit enterprises.
So those enterprises actually directly profit when people get sentenced, and that creates an abjectly unjust situation where the more people you can imprison, the more money and power you can acquire.
In other words, the more money and power the masters of that system acquire.
I have left the relative sanctuary of the garden, and I'm now back in the surreal box facade of the ordinary human world.
Where cars have once again become a dominating principle and motorcycles and sports cars.
These have returned to domination of the local environment in a way that is so catastrophically abusive and toxic that in anything but a society that was absolutely insane, it would be impossible.
But these are part of the structure of what we think of as privilege.
We have the privilege of owning vehicles and of being renters and mortgages.
By the way, the word mortgage actually means like death gauge. Mort is death in Latin.
So yeah, some of us have the privilege of paying mortgages and owning homes.
Others of us pay our landlords and in this structure you once again see the necessity of ongoing slavery to acquire the basic necessities of shelter, food, clothing that we need to continue lives that are mostly so fucking disoriented
as to be nearly unworth living.
I mean, what are we living for?
The opportunity to watch films, to buy cars, to pay the landlord for the taxes that fund atrocity.
So this is what I'm talking about when I say we're living in a structured sort of science fiction nightmare.
That while it might be one of the better prisons on earth is still essentially a prison.
And some few of us are now becoming relatively upset at the places where we have seen the fabric
of our nation, of the layered fictions, the layered fabrics where thin or just tear through.
And it's not like that hasn't been going on forever. It's been going on forever.
It's just that there's a little more pressure now.
Things are a little more tense overall and the pressure injected by the novel coronavirus pandemic has up to the ante a bit.
People have had to stay in their houses for a little while and some people thought that was a kind of imprisonment.
I'm not suggesting that actually. I think that there are many important aspects of social sort of cooperation
so that we need to engage in so that the pandemic doesn't collapse, are extremely shoddy.
However, seemingly technologically advanced are very shoddy and underfunded medical infrastructure in the United States.
Now, doesn't to say there aren't, even in the medical infrastructure, this is the same thing.
There's layers of care from extremely crude and ineffective or even toxic, dangerous, misguided to profoundly expensive
and very effective, relatively speaking, so that the extremely wealthy have access to incredibly advanced, by modern standards, degrees of care.
And the poor are primarily divested of their health by slavery, injury, illness, and sort of being repetitively beaten down over their lives.
But that medical infrastructure is absolutely crucial to the functioning of our slave system.
And if that thing breaks down, we are fucked. Now, I mean, we're fucked anyway, but we're a lot more fucked without hospitals.
So the reason for wearing masks and sheltering in place has to do with keeping our medical infrastructure from collapsing under the sudden surge stress of the pandemic.
And I'm in agreement with that process in that I think we have to work to protect each other from the possibility both of, you know, dying or being permanently maimed
or horrifically injured by contracting COVID because it's a very complex and very mysteriously novel syndrome that's probably not merely a respiratory syndrome.
There's a lot we don't know yet about that.
So we need to protect each other from that.
We also need to protect the relatively fragile medical ecologies and infrastructure, meaning we need our skilled nurses, we need our doctors.
We can't just sacrifice them for the sake of trying to survive something that we were incautious enough to exacerbate by reckless behavior.
So in any case, I'm getting close to my home and I've mostly kind of been venting a bit today, but I wanted to talk about the difference between this incredible mess of layered fictions that we call America
and the idealized sort of nonsense cartoon version that lives in many of our minds or in the minds of many of our citizens.
This is not heroic. This is tragic.
We've committed cascades of atrocity over time for which no atonement is actually possible.
You can't rebuild the oceans or the Amazon or the ecologies that have been obliterated.
You can't subtract the plastic from the environment.
You can't subtract the millions of tons of antibiotics and industrial chemistries that we've poisoned the planet with.
There's no going back.
And whether or not there's anything like a forward depends on our capacity to unify intelligently, compassionately, morally, nobly, and accomplish something that preserves and allows us the direct experience of the most fundamentally beautiful and intelligent aspects of our humanity.
And I hope, regardless of my grave doubts that will ever have that opportunity and my pessimism, I will yet remain hopeful and continue to work in that direction as I hope you will as well.
Thank you for joining me. Bye-bye for now.
