And in Zen practice, we want to avoid, we want to retain the kind of sharp edge of the awareness in a sense,
so that we can be aware of bodily sensations, we can be aware of transformations in consciousness,
and we can just keep returning to the breath and the practice throughout the period.
And once you sit down, you stay there, right.
You don't sit down for 25 minutes and get up after 10.
You sit down for 25 minutes, you sit down for 40 minutes.
But for common people who are just wanting to get some benefit of mindfulness training,
you can sit for 5 minutes, you can sit for 10 minutes, you know, a little longer if you become comfortable with it.
And if, you know, if this doesn't work for you, it's okay, right?
You don't have to, I'm not, I'm not trying to tell people, hey, you should sit meditation.
But if you find that you're nervous, or you're frightened, or the world is becoming confusing,
you're not sure, you know, you feel uncertain.
Mindfulness training is a very valuable medicinal practice.
It's good for your health.
Your organs regenerate a little bit.
You acquire, if you're doing it right, you acquire, well, if you're doing it well,
you acquire, like, a regenerative energy from this practice.
And whether or not we're going to sit meditation, attentive mindfulness is profoundly useful
in situations of crisis and unexpected change.
And my original teacher, John Tarrant, this is kind of one of his,
this is a space that he likes to teach from, right?
He might say something similar to, look, when things are in upheaval,
when you don't know what's going on, when you're frightened, when everything's topsy-turvy,
that's the most fruitful time to bring mindfulness into your awareness,
to come back to the body, come back to the essential aspects of your being,
recognize them, inhabit them, nurture them, express them.
We're facing a time now of incredibly profound change.
It's unpredictable, it's frightening.
We can't really depend thoroughly on our society to carry us through this,
and some of us are not going to come through this.
So we're going to need to develop intelligent, skillful capacities with our awareness
so that we can make decisions that make sense,
so that we can relate with people meaningfully and kindly.
Wow, the wind is really kicking up and getting wet.
It's not raining, it's just, it's blowing moisture off the tree branches,
and there's a lot of it because it's foggy.
We're going to need good foundations to live and dream and work from,
and we're not going to get those from overthinking or listening to the news.
We're going to have to, I think, or at least my view is,
that we're going to have to bring to life the profound potentials,
the beautiful and astonishing potentials,
that our modern humanity has largely buried under nonsense.
And mindfulness is a very useful tool, a very useful practice
that can help us to rediscover aspects of our ability,
our resilience, our faith, our true nature.
You don't have to solve a co-on.
You don't have to answer the question,
does the dog have with a nature or not?
And in fact, I think the co-on is a bit of a trap.
I'm not sure about this, but I come to think in my older age
that the co-on's a bit of a trap, it's a trap for the intellect.
And in a way, it kind of keeps the intellect busy enough
that the anciently profound non-verbal aspects of our being
can emerge into our awareness while the intellect is busy
in its little hamster wheel of yes or no, black or white, good or bad,
so on and so forth.
So I've meandered around these topics quite a bit,
and I'm grateful to have this time to record this video
for those of you who may enjoy it at some point in the future.
I adore the living world, these trees, this fog, the mist, the birds,
the animals and plants, they are what I live for.
I'm also a human being, and so I live in that world too,
and sometimes for me it's very confusing,
because I don't trust the humans really much at all.
I don't trust what they call intelligence.
What they call society does not seem particularly social to me.
What they call civilization does not seem civilized.
What they call education rarely approaches anything I would conceive of as resembling
what the word could mean if we lived in societies that were even modestly enlightened.
So in many ways we're kind of, in my view, in a new dark age.
It's a dark age of technology.
It's a dark age of too much light, too much fake light, right?
And I don't like those lights.
I can't stand the brightness of LEDs.
The shivery white terror of modern lighting is a nightmare to me.
Give me something soft, give me something warm,
give me something like sunset, or the sunlight itself.
With all these machines and screens and glaring white illuminance.
It's not my...
It's not something I relate with.
I retreat from all of that stuff to the degree that I'm able, even though
in this time, much of our lives and communication and such depends on these things, ironically.
I mean, I'm here making a video on my smartphone, right?
The irony is not lost on me.
In any case, I send you all my love, my hope for your well-being,
and I retain my reverence for the living world and my curiosity about the path of our species
in the strange situation, in the vast array of strange situations that we presently inhabit.
Thank you for joining me.
All blessings to you.
Thank you.
