Hey everybody, just to give you an idea of where I'm at.
I am in a mountainous forested area where many people have vacation homes.
It's cold here.
There's a lot of trees.
Not a lot of activity.
I'm not really sure yet what I'm going to talk about today.
But there will be the occasional interruption by a vehicle or two.
I'm just walking along a street.
It's very windy and foggy here at the moment.
And as usual, you're welcome to just listen.
There's probably no particular reason to be watching my face unless you really enjoy doing that.
So I have some training which I've received primarily through the auspices of my interest in Zen meditation.
Which began, let's see, around 30 years ago now.
When I read the life story of Masashi, this is a big, thick tome.
It's not one of Masashi's books or the book of five rings.
It's a big, thick book.
I still have the book that I got a long time ago.
And in that book, there was a Zen priest who pretty much hated Masashi.
And when Masashi was young, he was kind of a jerk and a coward and a bully.
So maybe at that point there wasn't that much to like about him.
The character of the priest, even though I didn't really like him, wasn't a likable character in the book.
He was just peculiar.
And I had heard that there was a meditation practice.
Of course, what I heard isn't actually really true.
But I had heard that there was a meditation practice where you were given a kind of a question that could not be resolved with the intellect.
And I found that quite fascinating.
And I was very intrigued by it.
And after reading the book, you know, this was a time of deep spiritual seeking for me.
I was living with a slightly monastic, a monastically minded Catholic at the time.
And every once in a while I would have to step off the road just for safety here.
And he was introducing me to what might be called contemplative Catholicism.
It's very different from your kind of everyday run of the mill Catholicism.
And I was singing very old liturgical music in a choir with Marilyn Thompson in Petaluma.
I wonder if I can remember my roommate's name.
I can't at the moment.
He was very peculiar and kind of beautifully sold.
Man, his name was Jeff actually.
And he had the most astonishing voice.
Oh my God.
He was very soft, spoken.
Big guy, lovable.
And he got me into the choir and he took me up to a monastery up in Ucaia.
I spent some time up there a couple times, a few times.
I started undergoing the process to become a Catholic.
I never finished that process.
Strange, unexpected difficulties and ramifications of this emerged.
Which I'm not really intending to talk about today.
But one of the most amazing things that happened to me during that time, there were a couple amazing things.
One of them was that Jeff had kind of an in with a number of people who were deep in the monastic Catholic tradition.
And he got us an appointment to sit with two Carmelite nuns in a Carmelite monastery,
which I think was in San Rafael or Nevada.
I can't remember.
So we went and we went through this, like in general these women are entirely sequestered.
They're not allowed to have any contact really with the outside world at all except through their priest.
And these were two women in their 50s or 60s who had been in the monastery for many, many years.
And we had to go through this like a prison turnstile thing that led to a cage,
and they had two seats on our side, they had two seats on their side.
And we got to spend maybe an hour and a half with them, talking with them about questions of faith and the nature of God
and some of the largely women, like St. Teresa of Avila, some of the contemplative writers from that tradition.
And while I don't particularly remember a lot of the specific conversation that day,
there is something that will stand out about that day in my memory forever,
which was that these two nuns, these women,
there was a palpable aura of something otherworldly about them.
Something really unlike anything I had ever encountered that I was aware of.
They seemed to be glowing, not in the sense of giving off illumination,
not in the sense of light was coming off of them,
but the soul's version, the soul's metalog of light was alive in them.
And it was a really profound experience.
The experiences that I had with the monks up at the monastery in Ucaya were good.
I'm going to have to turn around because it's starting to rain.
I don't want to get soaked.
And I'm probably going to be laboring because I've been coming downhill and now I'm going to be going uphill.
So around this time, I remember a man.
I used to spend a lot of time in bookstores and back at this time I had probably four or five thousand books,
almost all science fiction, but not all of it.
Some few spiritual books and a little bit of philosophy and some novels.
It was pretty fun in Nabokov, who I probably would have never encountered
if it weren't for his appearance in a sting song, What Don't Stand So Close.
So around this time, I read the Masashi book and a buddy of mine,
my close guitar player friend, Rich Verone, who I met one day after an all night LSD trip
when I was 16 and he was 15.
I met him on the street.
I was carrying my guitar.
And we became close friends and I looked up to him as a guitar player for most of my life, still do.
He was a huge inspiration to me.
He was studying with a Buddhist teacher and he began to talk to me about this idea of Zen koans.
The word koan, as I understand it, I'm not an expert on any of this.
It apparently means something like a public case or a public record, a matter of record.
And the koans, there are hundreds of them in books.
And there have been situations where, because Zen is so...
The history of Zen is very complex and rich, with astonishing characters, peculiar characters, enigmatic characters.
And Zen itself is a kind of standing enigma for the common person.
We use this word colloquially to mean sort of clarity or austerity or minimalism.
But Zen emerges from an incredibly minimalist approach to mindfulness
and something we might refer to as awakening, or satori, kencho, deep insight into the nature of the mind and the essence of being.
Which is, in Zen, often somewhat confusingly presented as emptiness.
This emptiness does not really mean... It's very unfortunate. Our lexicon in English is insufficient, I think.
Of course, many people who have spent long years in Zen study might simply say something like
That toward which Zen points is not verbally accessible.
It is beyond the capacities of language to encompass or reasonably point toward.
This doesn't mean we can never speak of it or we should never speak of it.
It might mean, though, that if we are going to speak of it responsibly, we will be very careful and attentive.
And we will avoid common traps of language and naming and thinking and perhaps try to be a little more creatively present in the moment,
aware of its opportunities, resistant to its pitfalls.
So around this time, I'll return to topics of Zen, perhaps.
But around this time, I ordered this book at the bookstore where I often went with Copperfields in Santa Rosa.
And a man named Ishmael Ford was working there. Older, peculiar, eccentric, intellectual Zen student.
And I ordered this book, the book about Masashi's life.
And it was a good book and it came and I read it.
And I was deeply impressed by it. At the time, I was also studying Taekwondo with one of my friends, Chris Nelson.
And he was also teaching me whip chain, which is a terrifying weapon to practice.
Much more frightening than nun chucks in its way.
And that's part of why I selected that weapon is because it was so frightening to try to play with it.
It's seven metal links of chain, though there can be more.
And I was using a practice chain, which is relatively light, but a war chain is extremely heavy.
It probably weighs, I don't know, 35 to 45 pounds.
Anyway, it's a bunch of metal bars linked together with rings.
It's got a handle at one end and a metal spike at the other end that's a little heavier than the bars.
When you put flags on it to slow it down, you spin it around you and twist it and redirect it with your body and do all kinds of crazy things.
And I was very excited about that study.
So because of this, I was interested in Asian culture and particularly Japanese culture.
I was interested in martial arts and there's a mindset of meditation that most martial arts will have some degree of association with.
Either you will meditate before you practice or your teacher will teach you some aspect of mindfulness training to practice.
Because many of the martial arts that we know today originated in hearing birds I haven't heard before.
They originated in Asia in unusual situations.
For example, there was a time in China when I think the ruler of the land sent his soldiers to obliterate the Buddhist temples.
And armed horsemen attacked essentially unarmed monks.
And these monks developed techniques to repulse soldiers with little or no weaponry.
And as they did not have horses, they invented the whip chain.
The whip chain was a weapon designed to be able to strike and kill or dismount an armed soldier.
So martial arts and meditation traditions go way back.
So I ordered this book. I read it. I was very interested in pursuing martial arts and some kind of mindfulness training and in learning kanji.
And I was making some furtive efforts in those directions.
At the same time, I was being introduced to contemplative Catholicism and an entirely new tilt on a mode of Christianity.
I was young. I was curious. I was inspired.
So I remember going back into, I remember reading Masashi and thinking that I really wanted to study Zen.
And so probably what I'd have to do is sell all my stuff, move to Japan and go to a temple.
It could have happened. A couple times in my life I had inspirations like this.
Like just get the hell out of the United States, go somewhere crazy, learn something amazing, live.
What ended up happening instead was I stayed here and learned some amazing things.
And though I didn't exactly thrive, I was nonetheless enriched.
So I went back to the bookstore and after reading the book and Ishmael said, you know, what do you think of Masashi?
And I said, I was really impressed with it and particularly interested in the figure of the priest.
But Masashi is fascinating because he sort of redeems himself and becomes a mythically skillful swordsman.
And then sort of gives that up.
And by the way, in case it isn't obvious, those guys like the gunslingers of the Old West,
there's a very clear correlation between the mindsets of the quick draw cowboys and the samurai swordsmen.
A challenge would be issued and thereupon with great immediacy, most often, and little fanfare,
two men would face off and depend on their skillfulness to defeat their opponent and win a claim.
As though a claim were something worthy of winning.
Though I don't think it was a claim that drove many of those battles.
It was something deeper and perhaps there's no easy language about it.
Masashi became a terrifying swordsman.
He killed one of the men who was known far and wide as unbeatable kind of a demon,
a sort of evil man who took great pleasure in effectively murdering his opponents.
The story goes that Masashi didn't even bring his sword to the encounter which took place on an island.
With his little knife, he apparently carved a striking stick from one of his oars,
approached the swordsman who was shocked and humiliated that Masashi was a mess and didn't bring a sword.
Masashi just killed him with a stick and apparently the guy was good enough that he got a strike off
and maybe took off Masashi's top knot.
I'm not sure how relevant this is to my story today but it's okay.
I don't have to be perfect.
And I'm not in combat with anybody.
And if there's any conflict at all, it's with this mountain and my inner critic.
He's a pretty fierce guy by the way once he gets set up.
Masashi later put up his sword and he had many, you must imagine he had many unusual practices
that while he lived on the land allowed him to sharpen his abilities to an uncanny degree.
It's also likely he had teachers.
If you're going to fight with katanas and stuff, one of the correlations is the quick draw
because there are aspects of sword play where one trains to slay an unexpected opponent
who one cannot hear approaching from a seated position to both draw the sword and kill in a single stroke.
And this is one of the correlations between the samurai's and the gunslingers
because it was the quick draw.
Not all sword play was like that.
Often people would draw swords, face off, and then engage.
But it generally wasn't, it was not a protracted form of combat, generally speaking.
Usually with one or two encounters a victor would be obvious and the loser would be either dead or severely injured.
The wind is very loud here. It's kind of beautiful, spooky.
Although there's roads and houses everywhere and cars and stuff.
So, he actually put up his sword eventually and became a gardener.
Maybe he will come to challenge him and refuse them.
This went on for quite some time and then maybe he picked up the sword again for a while
in the latter part of his life, if I remember correctly.
But there was an aspect after he had mastered the sword
where he settled down into what appears to have been a contemplative existence.
So I went back to the store where I bought the book and Ishmael said,
Hey, what did you think? And I said, you know, that Zen priest is pretty interesting.
The book is great.
I saw she's fascinating.
I think I might, I'm thinking about selling my belongings and going to Japan to study Zen.
And he said, well, you could do that or you could come back here in an hour and a half when I get off work
and we can walk up the street about two blocks from here.
And I'll introduce you to my Zen teacher.
And I was like, well, wait, what? Really? He's like, yeah.
I said, you know, a real Zen teacher? And he said, yeah.
Australian guy, John Tarrant Roshi, a student of Robert Aitken Roshi,
who gave John Tarrant transmission, meaning that John Tarrant Roshi,
who was an American man, brilliant, beautifully hearted human being,
who taught Zen for many, many years in Hawaii,
who acquired his Zen training in a Japanese prison camp in World War II.
