John Tarrant Roshi passed away in the first decade of the 2000s,
I think maybe around 2006 or 2008, if I remember correctly, which I may not.
I got to meet him one time.
And I think I was unceremonious about it.
After dinner, we had a moment when I thanked him for his teachings,
and I was quite choked up, and he offered his hand to me to shake it,
and I embraced him. Probably an extreme decorum violation there.
But I realized I'm going to have one shot, and I really want to hug this guy.
So I wasn't particularly paying attention to propriety.
So that night, we went to John Tarrant's house,
and I sat Zen for the first time in his relatively small living room
with his then wife, Roberta Goldfarb,
and I met that night another young guy not too unlike myself,
who had practiced kickboxing,
and had been a student of Zen for quite a number of years already.
It was about my age. His name was Glenn Friedman,
and he and I became relatively close friends.
And I began my Zen practice, and I was extremely enthusiastic.
I found the practice fairly difficult.
You sit on a little pillow, on a little mat.
A mat's called a Zabaton, a pillow's called a Zafu,
and your butt's sort of raised up on that pillow.
You keep your back straight.
You sit in half-lotus or full-lotus position.
You have a mudra, which you hold around your belly button,
where there's one version for the women, one version for the men,
and it's just which four fingers cup the other four fingers, right?
Is it the left cupping the right above them,
or is it the right cupping the left?
And then your thumbs, your thumb tips are just very gently touching.
So, you know, it makes kind of a, this is half of it.
Can't show you the other half right now.
So, I began my Zen training, and I was profoundly determined to resolve the koan I was given,
which is the koan mu.
It is said that to begin a path of Zen study,
you have to pass through the gateless gate of the old masters.
Mu is this gate.
There is no gate, yet you must somehow pass through.
The koan itself is relatively simple.
Well, the framing of the koan is simple.
So, long ago, there was a great Zen teacher named Joshu, or Chouchu in Chinese,
and one of the declarations associated with the Buddha
is that all beings are intrinsically complete, or already perfected.
There is nothing lacking in them.
In this sense, they are the Buddha.
All each being is the Buddha.
The nat, the tiger, the elephant, the fir tree, the turtle, the frog, the snake, the scorpion, the eagle,
the vulture, the duck, the bear, the badger, the bison, the elephant, the giraffe,
the coyote, the wolf, the sparrow, the mouse, the rat, the ferret, the cat, the dog,
the lizard, the butterfly, the praying mantis.
These are all faces of the Buddha.
Now, it is different.
Perhaps it is different.
Perhaps we can distinguish between the fact of intrinsic,
essential perfection.
We can distinguish between that fact and the capacity to realize that perfection,
to have a direct experience of the awareness of that truth,
and a peculiarly personal experience for each one who experiences this.
And this is one of the results of dedicated meditation practice.
And one might say, inappropriately, that although Zen should not be held to have a goal,
because another one of the Buddha's declarations is,
there is nothing to accomplish.
In the Great Heart Sutra, it says there is no path.
There is no awakening.
It's a beautiful sutra that I recite now and then.
So, yeah, Zen sort of, in its deepest, in our deepest experiences of Zen,
distinctions disappear.
There's no mind, no me, no eye, no ear, no tongue, no body, no self.
But this kind of talk is very mysterious until one has had some sort of taste of it.
And by the way, when I say that, yeah,
that's a habit I picked up from my Zen teacher, Jean Tarrant, many, many years ago.
He would do this, and that's where I got that habit.
I'm not doing it consciously, just unconsciously.
So the koan, in the koan mu, there's a little story that goes with it,
which is that Joshu was walking with some monks.
I think traditionally pictures and stuff show paintings of this.
They show three monks.
And the monks were a little ways ahead of him.
And they were gathered around a dog.
This probably took place in China.
And in China, at least at this time, and maybe to this day,
dogs were thought of kind of as vermin, right?
They would think of dogs the way city dwellers might think of rats,
which is unfortunate, actually,
because mice and rats are some of the most courageous and intelligent creatures on Earth.
They're not much like our...
They only very modestly resemble the ideas that modern humans generally have about them.
And in fact, you know, I've often said that if you really want to see an example of courage,
don't look at the tiger who's, you know, gigantic, powerful, decked out in weapons.
Look at the mouse.
I mean, the mouse people have faced death in every unimaginable way that we could never imagine.
Our species have been inventing new ways to subject mice to death for, you know,
tens of thousands of years, but certainly for the last thousand,
when they've become test subjects in our laboratories,
the mice probably know more about death than any animal on Earth,
because they're just consistently subject to it.
Often at the hands of humans, but even without us, they're, you know,
they're a primary prey animal for many predators.
So I would say, you know, the mice are really good examples of courage,
with the little sparrows that live in the cities and face gigantic automobiles
and human beings and buildings and ridiculous, actually alien, nonsense,
like science fiction-y, impossible craziness that has nothing to do with being an animal at all.
I think of these small creatures as my teachers, and I have great reverence for them.
I haven't always been able to be as ethically true to my reverence for living beings as I would like.
I have made mistakes that are terrible, and some of them haunt me on a few occasions.
Most of them were, thankfully, unintentional.
In any case, the monks approached a dog in the path,
and they were gathered around the dog and they were arguing
about whether the Buddha meant, what did the Buddha mean when he said, you know,
all beings, events, true nature.
And in English, this is often sort of mispronounced, sorry, looking at something here.
It says, you know, because we have the container metaphor and the possession metaphor,
you might hear something in English like, all beings possess true nature.
It's a bad, it's a linguistic misapprehension, because true nature is not a possession.
There's a golf ball here. I'm going to roll it down the street just to watch it go.
It's a pretty big hill.
I think its journey has ended for the moment.
So, the monks were arguing, you know, this is a dog.
Did the Buddha really mean that the dog is the same thing as the Buddha?
Is the dog and the Buddha, are these interchangeable? I mean, what did he mean?
Surely he didn't mean this disgusting, you know, cur, is the same as the Buddha.
What did he mean? Is this dog and the Buddha, are we looking at the Buddha right here?
So, Joshu, the old man, it said of him, I think that a kind of light used to play around his lips when he spoke.
And if you've ever encountered somebody like the sisters, the Carmelite sisters I mentioned earlier,
someone who's very deeply spiritually accomplished, you'll understand something of this,
but we have many stories of the old Zen masters that are peculiar and, as I said, enigmatic and mysterious and beautiful and puzzling.
So, Joshu walked up to the monks and they were arguing and he said, you know, master, teach us because we don't understand.
I mean, does this dog have Buddha nature? Again, there's a possession, right?
Is this dog events the Buddha? Is this the Buddha in front of us right here or not?
And in the koan, Joshu says, move, which apparently in Japanese means no.
One of the monks, at that very moment when Joshu said move, one of the monks awakened to his true nature.
And so the koan is a record of an exchange in which either someone experienced awakening or there was a kind of Dharma combat,
insight combat going on between two teachers or a teacher and a student or a student and a teacher, so on and so forth.
And there are hundreds of koans to, generally it is required for a Zen teacher in our lineage, I think, to resolve 300 koans.
Most of them start with one of a very small number of koans.
Move is very common. That's the one that was given to me. And I thought, boy, I'm going to, I'm going to break right through this right away.
That never happened. 30 years later, still working on move.
But I learned to sit and to follow my breath with my attention.
One of the interesting things about Zen is it's extremely no frills, although you can find literature and books written about it and so on and so forth.
The practice is extremely simple. There is no real dogma other than maybe awakening is possible.
And because it's associated with Buddhism, some of the traditional ideas and chants and so on,
like the Great Heart Sutra, are preserved in Zen practice so that before we sit as a group, we often have some chanting.
We might recite the Heart Sutra or a number of other sutras. We have the Great Vows.
The many beings are numberless. I vow to save them.
Greed, hatred, anger, and ignorance rise endlessly in fear. I vow to cut them off.
The gates to awakening are countless. I vow to recognize and open them.
The way of awakening is unsurpassed. I vow to embody it fully.
These are the four vows that we normally take before sitting.
So I learned something of mindfulness over many years of meditation.
I sat first with the group, but eventually there was a conflict within the group that hurt my feelings and I left.
I continued my practice on my own for a number of years until I came to San Francisco.
And then I began to sit with another of Aiken Roshi students, Joseph Bobro.
And I met another young guy there who I became friends with and roommates with, a guy named Nick, and continued practice for a long time.
And eventually there was kind of a crisis in that little group and it sort of broke up.
And I stopped sitting for a while, started sitting again eventually, and so on.
My point is just that mindfulness training helps us to be present in the situations we are in regardless of the activity of the mind.
We notice the mind is churning, it has desires, it has fears, it's impatient, it's frustrated, it's frightened, it's megalomaniacal, it's all these things, right?
The mind is doing all these things, but in mindfulness training we learn to return to the breath and just to return our awareness to that fundamental pulse of life within us.
The consciousness arises from the breath.
And although I didn't really have a goal today in making this video, eventually I thought I would speak about the usefulness of mindfulness training because it's profoundly helpful.
And healthful, it's healing if we are willing to stop, to allow the mind to settle, not to stop it, not to try to stop it, to allow it to settle down and to just feel the breathing pulse from which our life force and consciousness emerges.
To let the attention rest in that inhalation and exhalation.
And the little gap between each one, something very beautiful there.
At the bottom of the exhalation there's this resting place, and at the top of the inhalation there's a resting place.
Sometimes during my Zen training I eventually had experiences where it seemed as though I was so relaxed that I mostly stopped breathing, or breathed only very little for quite some time.
And of course I've had a number of interesting experiences in sitting Zazen, that's not the point of my talk.
In fact, many of those experiences can be quite distracting because they can seem very powerful or important.
But the goal is to get past all of that, right, if there's a goal.
The goal is to cut through the mind and experience directly one's true nature, one's original nature.
However, in times of crisis and trouble when we are frightened and the world is becoming disorganized around us, and the routines we are used to are being broken,
the routines we depend upon for calmness and sanity and well-being,
the capacity to just sit down and follow your breath, and as your mind brings forth its produce, just let it settle again.
And it may keep doing that, right, it brings forth something, and you just settle back into the breath.
Ah yes, there's thinking, that's okay, back to the breath.
Oh yes, there's frustration, ah yes, back to the breath.
Oh yes, there's desire, back to the breath. Oh fear, back to the breath.
Just keep returning to the breath and the koan, which for me is just Moo, right, I just breathe in Moo.
But I don't say it, it's in my, you know, I say it in my belly.
And we breathe in Zazen by sort of expanding the lower belly, right, down here.
Like in here, yeah, so you relax your belly first so that it's kind of a big baby belly, totally relaxed.
And then you just let it expand for the inhalation and contract for the exhalation.
Your belly kind of goes in and out, rather than breathing up in your chest, you're breathing down in your belly.
And there's the idea of moving your consciousness, your awareness down into your belly, which is sort of primordial, yeah.
Our organs are down in there, our digestive system, our stomach, our spleen, liver, kidneys, all that stuff is all down in there.
So we want to kind of come away from the head, where a lot of us live, right, we're up in our head a lot of the time,
particularly if we frighten or nervous or frustrated, and just go down into the belly and breathe and feel that breath.
Let your awareness attach to that rhythm of expanding and contracting.
It's beautiful, it's very powerful, very calming.
In fact, even just talking about it right now is very calming for me.
So in times of difficulty, it's very important to take a few minutes.
You know, we often, we usually, Zen periods are usually either 25 minutes or 40, 40 minutes, I think.
And then we walk for 10 minutes, we do walking meditation, which is called kinhin, which is, and by the way, when we do Zen,
the gaze is sort of directed down, and the eyes are half-lidded like this.
The gaze is directed down, eyes are half-lidded.
You don't pay attention to anything that you see, really, or what happens with your visual sense,
but you also neither keep your eyes open, right, because it's something that is somewhat comfortable to me.
I just keep my eyes open, and nor do you close them, right.
And the reason for that is just that in Zen, we are trained not to fall into trance,
and with your eyes wide open, it's easy to fall into trance,
and with your eyes closed, it's easy to fall asleep, or, you know, fall into trance.
