Hey everybody, thanks for joining me. I'm out for a walk but I'm gonna stay on the
voice recorder so there may be a little extraneous noise, people talking, my
foot falls, I'm presently on my way to the ocean. And I don't have a plan for
what I want to talk about today, so there's gonna be some improvisation. And
maybe, anti-ironically, that could become my plan, my plan to have no plan. I'm
watching a syphilid fly, otherwise known as a hoverfly, and it's dancing
in the sunlight. And these flies, when they dance in the sunlight, they often
just hover, and this one's now coming to check me out, because its local
environment has transformed. There's a gigantic living being, probably a million
times its mass. And if you think in terms of numbers of cells, acting
coherently as an organism, and histories and lineages of beings, embodied in this
little fly that I'm observing with care and wonder and all, and we're observing
each other. And of course, at its size, the overwhelmingly profound significance of a
being of my size, paying attention to it, and the overwhelming significance of a
being of its size, paying attention to me, as it hovers in the music of my voice, and
the brilliant light of our incredible sun, surely one of the most gentle and
benevolent of stars. And as we're here together, me and this tiny insect, who
appears for the moment to perhaps have departed. Oh, nope, it's back. We're having
a reunion. A reunion of many beings, many lineages, many cell lines, many viral
lines. And it's observing me quite closely. It's quite, it's curious about me.
And I'm curious about it, but in an entirely joyful way, an entirely
compassionate way. For I recognize that our seeming separation is largely an
illusion. And there are aspects of myself, probably very, very, very deeply and
resistant to being encapsulated in language. Some of the aspects associated
with dreaming, or with love, with wonder, with awe, with humility, with reverence.
Aspects of myself associated with qualities that, to me, seem deeply
indicative of virtue. Together with this little creature, that most people would
either ignore or try to identify and then ignore. Oh, that's a this, on to the next
thing. This is how we're trained by our cultures and peers and families to relate
with living phenomena primarily. What is it? A young person I know recently sent
me a quote from a book that she was reading, because she found it very
confusing, this quote. And in the quote, there's a character speaking with a
non-ordinary being, and the non-ordinary being is rather frightening, somewhat
intimidating. It's not pretty. It's not a beautiful looking being. It's a fearsome
looking being. And the fearsome looking being is bound by what we might call a
geus. It's the word is spelled G-E-A-S. And a geus is often presented in stories as
a crucial taboo or prohibition with which someone's non-ordinary power is bound so
that if the geus is broken, the non-ordinary powers may depart or even
turn against the one in whom they are expressed. In any case, in the story, the
character asks the non-ordinary being, beginning by saying its name and saying,
you know, you are one who cannot lie, implying that this being's way of being.
It's deeply associated with truthfulness, but also is structured in such a way that
either it is impossible for this being to lie, or it's somehow against its nature.
Though the implication is the former one, that it's impossible. And the character asks,
since you cannot lie, tell me where is fairy? And in the quote that word is spelled
unusually, but it's clear what it means. At least it's clear what direction this word
is pointing in. And the being begins to answer in a very dissembled, verbal way and says
something like, well, I'm not sure that anywhere I could point at would not be fairy. And it says
this in a very complex and wordy way. That's confusing. And the questioner becomes frustrated
and says, you know, that doesn't mean anything. I can't tell what you mean. And the being again
repeats a complex verbal formula that's confusing and noncommittal in the sense of saying,
I'm not sure where it isn't. And I'm not sure that if I told you where it is, that wouldn't be
where it is not. And the questioner becomes frustrated, as did my young friend, who sent me
this message and said, isn't this the most mind bending thing you've ever heard? I dare you to
make sense of it. And the sender knows my mind and I know their mind. We've adventured in learning
together a lot. And I wrote back and said, you know, it's not that mind bending. And although it
sounds superficially confusing, I can suggest an answer that might help make sense of it. And the
answer is this. Suppose that the being that must tell the truth realizes that wherever fairy might
be, it isn't in language and concepts and words. It isn't to what? It doesn't have a where. And in
fact, it's neither everywhere nor nowhere. It's neither here nor there. Perhaps this fairy they're
speaking of is an aspect of our own origin. And so while it's never missing, it can easily be hidden
and perhaps most easily by words and concepts and models and ideas. And so the nonordinary being is
using appropriate care so that it doesn't accidentally lie. And my young friend found that surprising and I
think valuable. But something magical was happening there because we were both trying to understand. We
were coming together and asking questions and wondering about the nature of being and perhaps the nature
of magic, the nature of origin, the nature of the intelligences with which we are endowed. And yet by
which we are so easily consigned to a prison like situation where wonder and fervor, creativity,
and joy, play, and discovery are profoundly inhibited, if not entirely lost. Now of course, my young friend in the
conversation is in a much better situation than I am. Because being young, my friend isn't fully in language during
culture aided. And being the child of a somewhat wild, and by which I mean feral mother, she gets plenty of input
from the aspects of our waking worlds that more closely resemble dreaming than they do thinking. And when for a moment
the little fly and I were wondering about each other and making some kind of connection there as it hovered in the music of my voice
and the brilliant light of our sun, there's a place for the wild for the magical, non-ordinary nature of our existence to find
expression, to find embodiment, to become embodied. It's not clear that it remains embodied as we part from one another,
the little insect and I. And so it is that for many of us, and you know, times matter, situations matter a lot, for many of us we will have
a kind of irregular heartbeat of experience with our true nature, the nature that dwells unstained, undistorted, deep within all of us.
However hidden it may be from our common waking world experiences. And for some of us, it's not very hidden. Some of us live lives of deep,
profound wonder and learning and discovery and joy and trial and tribulation and injury and loss too. But for some of us, much of our
waking lives partakes of and embodies the invisible universe of beings and birth and death and dreaming and hope and fear and love.
For some of us, this is part of our everyday lives. The for vast populations of us, the dreaming dies as we get older and become used
to the workaday world of dealing with the pragmatic necessities we think of them as, of shelter and food and paying the bills.
Apparently by becoming human, at least according to our societies, we incurred some kind of work debt and rather than nourishing and nurturing our natural
inclinations to be creative and fruitful and to learn skills and become accomplished and contribute meaningfully.
Which all of these things I think are, you can see them very naturally if you just watch children play. No one demanded that they play.
They decide to play together. They grow and learn together. They have joy and wonder together. And it's good. I mean, you know, where it's not.
I mean, wherever it, it's good where it is. And it's troubling when it, you know, turns dark.
So there's a natural inclination in human beings. But this inclination has been captured by our supercultures and turned into a demand.
And mostly a prison and a cage, though some of us are able to find meaningful work and roles, even in the very strangely disembodied and disassociated cultures in which we exist.
Now, of course, some of us are not very connected to those cultures and others of us are entirely bound up in them.
So for some people, there's still, you know, some reasonable degree of freedom. And for others, they just live in cages, within cages, within cages.
I was talking to a friend last night who said something, you know, very familiar to me.
He said, I feel that I'm in a rut, within a rut, within a rut, within a rut.
And I said, oh, that sounds like a ziggurat. It's like the opposite of a step based pyramid that just goes downward into giant abyss.
And we both laugh.
We didn't just laugh because of the canny pun there. Rather, we laughed because it was a laugh of recognition, of mutual recognition.
Only someone who truly understood what he meant could make such a joke.
And in so doing, rather than dismissing our pain and confusion, we embraced it in a way that allowed us to be playful together.
And also drew us closer together in bonding because in that play, in that humor, even about something that's truly grim in both of our experiences,
we acknowledged our deep friendship and long standing adventure together.
Even though we are profoundly different in our, in our natures and our ways of being in the world and in what we find important
and in what we are willing to believe or assert or concern ourselves with, wildly different me and this friend.
Nonetheless, we've walked together in our lives for more than a decade. We know each other very well.
In some ways, we know each other better than our families know us.
There's a profound beauty there, a profound embodiment of companionship, of going together in the world and our lives.
Through many years, many trials, some victories.
And for a brief time, for me, I think a rather longer time for the insect, we too came together.
Now I can't know what was going on for the insect.
Or rather, whatever was going on for the insect, I know only of that part in which I briefly partook when we became companions in a moment of this day in the sunlight,
on the living world, the beautiful and strange world we call our own.
A world whose common name is synonymous with dirt.
You know, dirt and soil are the same thing, but they don't have the same connotations.
Over time, language acquires connotation.
And so it's not so much that words mean things by themselves because by themselves they're meaningless, but rather we employ them to mean certain kinds of things.
And in an attempt to express understandings, histories, concerns and thoughts, speculations, theories and models, evaluations, metrics and accounting.
Now surely, if we just look at the words and we think only of their definitions, soil and dirt are pretty much the same thing.
With dirt, there's the common connotation of something undesirable, something we'd like to make go away, and this partly comes from living inside boxes that we control the environments of.
Whereas soil has other connotations, in fact a vast array of them.
And we can re-connotate the word just by using it, if I say, from the soil of my deepest being, a sprout unhindered rose to light.
Now we know that I'm not merely speaking about dirt.
I'm invoking or evoking qualities of dark nourishment, quiet, protective silence, soothing moisture.
And perhaps even spiritual energies, mystery, wonder.
And we recall with such ideas our own genesis in the great womb of the universe and the living wombs of our mothers.
And in recalling this way honor these things.
So we can see how strange it is with language.
And it's very easy to become confused and think that words mean things.
All the time I see people asking questions, what does this word mean?
What does this experience mean?
How am I to decode this in my rational mind?
And often this desire, it has a peculiar foundation, which is the foundation of figuring out, quote unquote, what something is, does, or is for.
But it's really important to understand that when we embark on that purpose and we have this motive, there are a variety of dangers that come with it.
And one of them is that wonder will die into a relic of some kind.
We will get, we will transform our experience of the unknown with all of its potentials for discovery and creativity.
We exchange this for a token.
Oh, that's a syphilid fly onto the next thing.
There's an aspect of our habit and the habits we were taught by our cultures and our experience in them.
That's highly motivated to kill the mystery and produce a manipulable token.
Now, the value of that token varies dramatically depending on who and what's involved.
So, for example, Einstein in his role as the emergence point of a vast field of interest in research and concern and speculation and thought and modeling and testing and mathematics.
He gave us something so profound that it changed the meaning of everything.
It's a very tiny spider in the path, but I don't want it to stay in the path because it's easily crushed.
And something in me loves all the living beings as if I sense that we are all together and their fates and well-being are profoundly intimate with my own.
So I nudged the little spider at long, though I'd have liked to have spent more time with it on the path where the people go.
It's very busy and it's very dangerous for living things.
You can see the network of roads and freeways and we know about the cars and how they obliterate most of the living beings they come in contact with, just as a matter of convenience.
And so it's very dangerous for living beings wherever there are roads.
And one of the things that happens when we ask what something is or what it's for or what it does or what we do with it is that we're expanding roads that were previously made.
And these roads can become something beautiful and alive, but for most common people, most of the time, the roads lay down.
May I?
Hi, hi beautiful.
My goodness, what a love. What a soul.
Yes, yes.
Thank you so much.
You guys are beautiful.
How ironic that I talk of the possible beauty of the roads, right?
No one brings their puppy and we meet and we get to exchange love and it's real. It's unplanned.
No one can say what it is for or even what it is.
You see, it's like the fairy that the child is asking about. Where is it?
Well, it's where we are open to notice it. It's where we accidentally become it.
It's part of the spirit of improvisation, one of the topics that I'm orbiting now.
The meeting with the people and their dog seems accidental in that I didn't plan it.
I had a role in it for if I was not brave and if they were not brave and willing to come together and willing to allow, you know, a connection to arise and be nurtured and celebrated,
then we just simply passed each other on the path.
I noticed the dog's spirit, its spirit noticed mine, but it could easily have been bypassed.
And when we're busy on the roads of our modernity, that's most of what goes on.
Either we're bypassing and so becoming ever more blind and unavailable to our own interiority and wonder and origin.
Or we're making products. We're reducing things to models and images and photographs and recordings, tokens.
Those tokens pile up and they have a deadly cost.
They're like a form of embodied starvation that keeps proceeding throughout our lives and becoming deeper and more dire.
All of us know people who've crystallized into the structured roads of thought, commerce, finance, jobs, education.
To such a degree that their inner spark seems to have died out.
And as they get older, they just keep crystallizing in this way.
And I recognize this because there's an aspect of my own story there.
I'm not merely remarking upon distant others.
So Einstein brought us something very strange.
And unfortunately, many of the most powerful results of those discoveries were used in processes and purposes that are essentially evil,
or at the very least nefarious.
Because in the supercultures, war, technology, commodity, banking, these priorities reign over all others.
And though our supercultures and our modernity give some lip service to our humanity, it's mostly empty.
It would happily do away with that and convert everything, all living beings, to objects.
It's not important here the philosophical questions about whether objects are also beings or not.
I make a fairly stark division between living beings, living places, and items, coins, words, models, language, theories, processes.
It's obvious that the living beings in places give life to one another.
They nourish one another deeply, all the time, without cessation.
I think there is some aspect of the universe, some domain, in which all of the activity of the living beings creates something we might think of as very nourishing nectar for all the living beings, all the time.
And if someone said, well, where is that place?
I might answer like the strange creature in the story.
We become the wear of origin and magic and wonder and beauty and learning and curiosity and the possibility of the fulfillment of the promise of our human birth, our animalian birth, our organismal birth, our spiritual birth.
We become that in the moments where we open and drop the costume of our humanity or, in some other cases, we transform the costume into a conduit for love, for mystery, for wonder, for the virtues.
Just as when we see someone brilliantly dancing to no music whatsoever in ways we'd never imagined possible, where we hear a child singing to themselves in a nearby yard, thinking no one's listening.
But everything is always listening.
Everything remembers the nourishing, comforting wonder of mutual recognition, mutual honoring, mutual opportunity and mutual fulfillment.
In one of my previous videos, I spoke a bit about evocation and invocation.
And these ideas are profoundly woven into improv.
Into the unplanned, often playful, sometimes tragic, sometimes painful improvisations that our daily lives invite us toward, even if our circumstances leave us feeling bound or trapped.
And many of us know all too well the pain of feeling bound and trapped in this way.
By the time we are adults, most of us have developed habits that buffer the mystery and transform our curiosity and our playfulness into more salable commodities such as work.
And as I said earlier, there's a natural inclination in nearly everyone to grow and develop and learn, acquire skills and abilities, discover and develop our faculties.
The myriads of senses beyond the five that are our native human inheritance, not just from our human ancestors, but from all of our ancestors.
And all of those gifts are embodied in each of us, but for most of us, we will rarely understand the potential for their development because we will remain in the traps and buffers and ruts.
That we took on thinking, well, this is what everyone does, this is what I'm supposed to do, this is what is expected of me, this is how I do it right.
