And in another of my videos, I talk at length about this idea of right and its relationship with boxes and rectangles, with traps, with cages, with pain.
For when we are divorced from our creative intuition, from our fervent adoration, from our wonder, our reverence, our awe, our playfulness,
we begin to experience something a lot like a living death, a kind of zombie existence where the dead remains of what might have been our developmental paths have become a trap and a cage we can find no exit from.
Partly because the faculties that seek those exits are usually among the first to be compromised.
And in the same way that the child asking about where is fairy, we could ask, where is the compromise from? What is compromising us this way?
And we might have the opposite kind of answer, our language, ideas, thoughts, models, habits and histories.
But strangely we transmit these traps to our children and to each other and we reinforce them throughout our lives, apparently believing that this is necessary or virtuous, when in fact it is neither.
Because the origins of meaning, the roots of meaningful experience and development are occluded and counterfeited, somehow purposefully,
by the strangely structured manifold of ideas and language that we inherit.
What is the thing that drives the humans in this direction? Is it a being? Is it evil? Is it a kind of bad magic?
Or is it instead the resonant absence of the origins of the virtues in our lives and experience?
And how that absence deepens as we age and how we become accustomed to that defection from each other, from life on earth, from intelligence, from humanity, from joy.
I don't know the answer, though I have some models and theories, I don't know the answer.
But one thing I am aware of is that our mode of mind in modernity is suffocating us.
As if there is an aspect of our humanity or rather our modern cognition that resents the existence of mystery and wants dead cold manipulables, the dissections common to science.
I mean there are two different ways to know a fish. One is to live and love and learn alongside the fish, the other is to dissect it and try to understand the mechanisms, the parts, the model.
And once we have that model, then we think, an aspect of us is prone to think, oh well I know what a fish is, it's just these physical things I saw when I cut it open and killed it.
But I think we both know that that's impossible. It's not possible for that to be true until we kill the fish with this intention, right?
And that motivation, that motivation to whatify, to name, to catalog, to record, to form and expand those dead roads of modernity
that are unfriendly to our own nature and to all living beings, and to make more cars, to drive on those more roads.
This process has been going on for thousands of years, millions of human lifetimes, and it's as if we're carrying a kind of curse.
And we transmit it to our children and they become fascinated for they certainly want the attention of adults, opportunities for meaningful roles,
which is part of why they cleave to magic and superheroes, because the invisible aspect of us recognizes its likeness there.
So we are all vulnerable because without deep, rich community and deeply rich family connections and relationships,
most of us will suffer, we will shrivel, we'll dry up inside, in the soil of our interiority.
And this is an unnecessary and terrible tragedy. And yet, it's everywhere around and within, nearly all of us.
We struggle with it throughout our lives, often in isolation or confusion.
It hurts, it hurts to be deprived of the nourishing intimacies and joyful play that we can see easily apparent in the behavior of any puppy or kitten or human infant.
And there's a myth that we grow out of it.
I think it's quite the opposite. It's invaded, it's colonized to use a hot watchword these days.
It becomes colonized by the traditions and habits of the cultures of thinking and language and what I'll call formal representational cognition,
which I often frame as the primary problem for human beings.
We have these assets, they are assets, and they're different from even similar assets that animals may have.
And animals have similar assets. They're just not quite as formal as ours.
But there are traps in this mode, and they are profound and largely invisible because once we've been encompassed by them,
very few of us will make the journey required to see back in, back toward them from outside.
And thus to be able to see, ah, this naming thing is dangerous.
It's not only dangerous, but it has specific dangers that if we ignore them, they're likely to overcome our interiority to establish themselves in its place,
like grand churches standing where once living beings embodied their intimacies and origins.
Last night in the garden I saw a sunset, and the sunrise and the sunset are incredibly important times because they are the twilight times of between,
where there's a window of opportunity. Our interiority is called forth from the possible mausoleum of our modernity.
And there's an opening there, a doorway there. There are other doorways too, but every day the sun rises and the sun sets.
And I was in the garden at the sunset, and I'd been present with some of the animals and plants there.
And earlier in the day, yesterday, in the morning, as I awakened, I heard in my spirit a cry,
a very high-pitched cry, like the cry of a small child or perhaps an animal that was in agony.
I heard this cry, this single sound, and I reflected on the pain of the living beings and of individual people and myself and beings I have known.
And I didn't, you know, it was mysterious. I didn't understand what this was for or about, right?
And there you can see immediately something happens. The grasping hand of representational consciousness awakens, right?
And it wants to reduce it to something knowable, sayable, modelable, dismissible.
But that didn't happen really. I kept the memory alive, and I didn't know what it was, and I didn't try to know what it was, but I did try to feel what it was for or about.
And when I was in the garden at sunset, I was about to leave, but I decided to make one more circuit.
So I went back, and on a bench near a table there was a squirrel man, and he was standing on his haunches with his back bent in the middle,
and his hands were in a prayer-like position, or what we might think of as his hands, or her hands, all the hands, their hands.
And he was emitting a cry, and I've heard the squirrels make this cry in the evening, and it's a very profound sound.
It's very powerful. In this little sound, there's more power than all the machines of mankind.
And it was a little bit like, it's very hard for me to emulate it, but it was a little like, like this.
And I remained quietly with the squirrel for some time, and I could see that the squirrel was transforming inside.
And what I mean is very complex, and a lot of it is mysterious, but a small part of what I mean is it was transforming.
It was embodying millions of generations of squirrels in the setting sun, singing the song of the squirrel people.
Now these are just words, and they're imperfect and incomplete.
But I was grateful to participate and be reminded, and when I heard its call, I recognized the likeness with the sound I had heard in the morning.
Even though the sound I had heard in the morning surely had something to do with pain, wounding, tragedy, loss, loneliness, isolation, loneliness, injury, illness.
I recognized the resonance between these two sounds without needing to collapse them into the same thing, which is what my thinking mind would have liked to have done,
because, well, it wants something, it can formulate, frame, and then dismiss.
And you notice how, it's easy to notice how the frames of things are there to cut off, right?
They are there to give us a smaller, completed view, seemingly completed view, enclosed by the box, the edges.
And this is a primary feature of our formal representational cognition, as we ordinarily employ it, but it is not, those faculties are in no way limited to that function.
But that function has somehow become the low-hanging fruit toward which we too easily reach, all throughout our waking time.
And sometimes even in dreaming, although thankfully in dreaming, we are relieved of the hard and fast frameworks of meaning, identity, and relation that we are used to in our waking experience.
And sometimes while awake, the dreaming mind seeps in, and things and beings, relationship situations begin to sparkle with a magical fluorescence, the fluorescence of memory, the origin of love.
Perhaps by becoming aware of the crippling, explicitness of our structured ideas and models and words and theories,
we can learn how to gently transfer the precedents from the aspect that makes dead models to the aspect that nourishes living relationships.
And I say this is accessible for us.
But most of us need help. We need wise and intelligent others, and we need people whose knowledge is not merely formal, whose knowledge is deep and relational and non-ordinary.
The knowledge we are more inclined to think of as wisdom. But again, these words are thin compared to what they point at.
I've come now from my home to the ocean, and I cannot take this recording to the ocean because the noise of the living waters will obliterate my voice.
So I'm wandering in a little place nearby the ocean where there's a big windmill, a big old windmill.
It might also once have been a turret.
I want to honor the spirit of improvisation, of play, of accident, and the joyful exuberance that we feel when reunited with astonishing living beings in nature, with people with whom we're fascinated and we love or are enchanted by.
And also with the private improvisations of our own lives.
To plan may be partly human, but to improvise with beauty in our hearts is surely divine.
Thank you for joining me today. I look forward to learning together again very soon. Bye-bye for now.
