Hello everybody.
So today I'm going to attempt to remake a video that I made last week with my headset
on and there was just too much noise in the headset.
I'm certain to overlook some of the things that I brought up in the previous video and
I'm going to pretend that instead of realizing, as I did in process last week, that the two
topics that I had were too significant to introduce together, I'm going to pretend that
I haven't discovered that yet.
And so the two topics that I wanted to introduce and talk about were the intelligence that
we have when we are infants with which we acquire complex social and cultural capacities
and linguistic and mathematics capacities.
So there's an intelligence that's native to our infants that has the potential to acquire
almost any kind of culture, almost any kind of language.
And while it doesn't disappear necessarily, as we grow older and as we use it to acquire
these things, we might think of it as submerging so that it becomes relatively inaccessible
to us.
And that the originary array of intelligences with which we enter our human existence, those
things are so astonishingly powerful that it's surprising that we acquire things with
them that are far less powerful and that are capable of severing our contact with those
originary intelligences whose capacities we experienced commonly as very small children.
So that was one of the topics that I was going to speak about and the other one is dreaming.
And that's the one I'm actually going to talk about.
But these two topics are related, in my mind, deeply related.
In a sense, we might imagine that the dreaming consciousness is a resurgence of aspects of
the originary consciousness with which we acquired language and the human sociocultural
frameworks that we throughout our lives attempt to embody and express primarily because we
are rewarded for doing so and we are punished if we do not.
So dreaming, when we are children, we engage in an activity called play and play is a kind
of active conscious dreaming or at least a mixture of certain faculties associated with
what I will refer to as our dreaming minds and the faculties associated with our waking
minds.
Most of us think, well that's not true, no one has any idea what most of us think.
Most people is a construct in language that's actually largely meaningless and relatively
nonsensical because you'd never be able to get most people in front of you to examine
whatever qualities they might have or not have, whatever inclinations they might possess.
Many people would dismiss play as an unimportant, relatively non-pragmatic, childish activity,
however I will argue that that activity is actually a crucial aspect of the foundations
of our intelligence.
Part of what happens as we get older, as we mature, or at least this is the language
we often use, is that those aspects become inhibited, they become submerged, they become
subconscious and rather than being expressed in our everyday activities, they are expressed
when we sleep in dreaming.
Some of them, some of the faculties involved would play, find expression in dreaming if
we're relatively lucky.
Dreaming is a really complex array, a spectrum of experience and activity, participation
and like many things we have sort of a catch-all phrase or word, this word dreaming with which
we intend to suggest that all such phenomenon are the same or at least our common experience
is to suppose thus.
But just as the fact that all of us were born as humans does not mean anything like we will
have the same experience as humans, the fact that all of us dream does not mean that our
dreaming experience will all be the same and in fact the word dreaming reasonably understood
refers to a broad spectrum of experience and activity that occurs in a variety of different
states of consciousness, not merely sleep.
Many of us have heard the word vision in the sense, used in the sense of one having
a vision and a vision, this word refers often to the waking experience of a profound dream-like
state, speaking from experience, this is often highly charged with emotional or possibly
spiritual feelings, significance, profound significance, a sense of prophetic qualities
and many other sort of features of our interiority with which we are ordinarily unfamiliar.
To have a vision is usually this language refers to an extremely uncommon highly charged
experience of non-ordinary consciousness while awake, however it is also possible to have
visions while dreaming.
So for example, I have had experiences where while awake in an unusual situation, I felt
suddenly that it was no longer possible for me to remain conscious, moved toward my bed,
the moment I touched my bed, well the moment that I reclined upon my bed, I became involved
in a very unusually charged kind of dreaming and this dreaming communicated to me features
of an upcoming experience, an experience I had not yet had with a visitor and this happened
on a number of occasions during an uncommon period in my life where I was relatively inclined
toward having non-ordinary experiences of consciousness, but I had never had an experience
like this before and since I had never had such an experience, it was very difficult
for me to understand what a vision meant, although the literature and people's stories
suggest relatively clearly what such experiences may be like.
So without bird walking too far down that road, I will suggest that all of us are at
least capable under the right circumstances of having visionary experience and to return
to the topic at hand, dreaming is unlike that, that's just machine noise.
When I use the word dream or dreaming, it's important to understand that I'm referring
to a broad spectrum of related but often significantly differentiable experience.
Certainly most of us are familiar with what is meant when we say daydreaming and often
it's not really, we're not really speaking of an experience that is a lot like a dream,
we're speaking of an experience where sort of our imagination floats into a trance-like
state and may present us with various figures or images or imaginal story lines and so forth.
But to start out, I'm going to talk about the dreaming that happens at night and some
of its peculiar features and as I've said a number of times already, there are many
different kinds of dreams.
I have not catalogued them all and of course in order to say that they're different, we
need to be motivated to differentiate between them, we need to be wanting to say this is
one kind of an experience, this is another kind, this is another kind and I think it's
useful just to understand that there are many different kinds of dreams that people experience.
I do not know all of them, I am familiar with some of them from my own experience and also
from research and talking with others and so on and so forth.
So for an example, in my own experience I've had relatively ordinary dreams which are the
more or less common experiences of the mind inventing a universe while I'm asleep and
then having some sort of adventure in that universe and I've also had very uncommon dreaming
experiences often related to either hypnagogic or hypnopompic phenomenon and more commonly
the latter, hypnopompic.
Now hypnagogic is a word that refers to the transition from waking to sleeping and hypnopompic
refers to the transition from sleeping to waking and during hypnagogic and hypnopompic
experiences we may have an uncommon relationship, very uncommon, we may experience non-ordinary
consciousness because in these two phases ordinarily we are largely unconscious, we
don't generally realize, for example, I am falling asleep, I am in the between of sleeping
and waking, or I am in the between of waking and sleeping, but in those phases very unusual
things happen.
Some of them can be terrifying, some can be enlightening, some can leave us with fundamental
questions about the nature of consciousness itself, about spirituality, whether we have
a soul, what the nature of the soul's involvement in dreaming is.
And these are questions that we have to chase and respond to these questions ourselves, it's
unrealistic to depend upon others to answer them, for there are questions that at least
are moderately unique to each of us, the same way that our own interiority, our own minds
are unique to us.
So I think it's very important to, though we can pose ideas about dreaming and consciousness
and minds and so on and so forth, it's dangerous to explicitly state precisely what they are,
what these things are, what they're about, what they're doing.
So insect phenomenon here that's very intriguing to me, but I'm going to pass it by for the
moment so that I can continue with you.
So in my own experience I've had what I'll call relatively ordinary dreams, I've had
nightmares and different kinds.
In general I find nightmares rather enjoyable if they're the scary kind, so that part of
me awakens terrified, but another part of me is almost like laughing or thinks it's
really funny and sees it as an adventure.
So I'll sometimes wake up facing away from the room having had a nightmare and will
find myself both completely frightened and not wanting to turn around because there could
be something really terrifying in the other part of the room.
And at the same time a sense of levity or hilarity or laughter, I will feel this, yeah?
Now I also have nightmares that are just bad, where I wake up feeling upset or that I have
suffered something really traumatic or relatively traumatic in the dreaming world.
And I suspect that this is most of what people mean when they refer to nightmares.
They're talking about an experience they definitely do not want to have, an experience
that's emotionally painful, emotionally charged, frightening, or kind of disruptive and injurious
emotionally, yeah?
So there's a broad spectrum of kinds of nightmares the same way there's a broad spectrum of kinds
of dreams and that nightmares are a subset of our dreaming experience.
I think we also have what I would call great dreams and these are dreams that are so significant
and unusual and often hyperreal that they may stay with us throughout, we may remember
them throughout our entire lives even if we don't ordinarily pay attention to our dreaming.
And I've had a number of these, 12 to 15, perhaps more, perhaps some that are not remembered,
but I have a record of the great dreams both in text and in my mind that I can kind of
walk through.
And these dreams may have some deep significance in relation to our lives and our life path
and particularly the life of our consciousness, right, which the life of the mind, the life
path of our awareness, our peculiar interiority, our personal interiority, our psychological
and psychic interiority, and its forms and transformations and perhaps its paths in its
developmental paths, yeah?
So hopefully many of you may remember specific dreams as being fundamentally important and
as standing out far above and beyond the ordinary dreaming, quote unquote, as if any dreaming
were ordinary, that happens to us, you know, hopefully very regularly.
And we could at least include some of the unusual experiences that happen during uncommon states
or uncommon activities, uncommon situations, such as things that could happen in meditation.
I recall, for example, one time when I was meditating and I heard a peculiar conversation
between two people that's seemingly far away in another place in another room.
The conversation had no useful content.
It was as if I was sitting in on a lunchroom conversation in a business somewhere that I
clearly wasn't for at that time I was in a, I was at a church actually with a group of
people who were sitting Zazen.
And there are vast array of experiences that can happen during meditation that have some
relevance to the topic but aren't precisely the same as dreams.
Then there are also experiences we can have during traumatic situations.
For example, it's very common for people who've been in a car accident to describe
something not unlike a dream. Time slows down. They have a profound experience of non-ordinary
consciousness just prior to the event often though not all the time.
And eventually the catastrophe occurs and usually seems unavoidable even though it appears
that time has slowed down.
I think this is really important partly because the relationship between dreaming and time
is entirely unclear. A dream may appear to occupy a vast temporal interval and yet actually
happen in a very brief or possibly even instantaneous moment.
And so I think there's a relationship between this seeming, the seeming downshift that happens
during an accident in temporal pace and dreaming.
I will speak a little later more about the relationship between dreaming and time.
There are also of course situations in which we can either be very injured and we are having
some kind of non-ordinary dream-like or visionary experience and also it's very common for people
who are severely ill to have unusual experiences of consciousness, awareness, dreaming and
so on, visionary states, etc.
And I would suggest that some of those experiences are related to the capacity of dreaming to
assist us in healing and transformation.
In other words, that dreaming is perhaps fundamentally but certainly in particular situations very
medicinal.
So we have great dreams, we have visionary dreams, we have healing dreams, we have crisis
dreams, we have nightmares, we have dreams in which something fundamental is communicated
to us and that we may emerge from a dream having learned something really profound.
Dreams that involve examining text seem to be very peculiar and unique. Occasionally
we can recover from a dream some text or some language. However, it seems that the relationship
between dreaming and language is a very peculiar one and although we believe that conversations
have occurred, it's at least likely that something else was going on. In the same way
that whatever might, in the same way that the analogy of light, which I'm going to call
illumination in a dream, is not actually light like the light around me, right? What we experience
as language in a dream is similarly not exactly language. And so the dream comprises what
I will call a paracosm, a seeming world whose features are familiar from our waking lives
and yet at the same time unfamiliar and not the same, right? Light is not light, people
are not people, animals are not animals, even though they qualify categorically according
to the categories that we ordinarily have applied or would apply when awake. A paracosm
is an imaginary universe with its own interior logics, categories, phenomenon, circumstances,
guiding, intelligences, senses, and so on. Surely if I am flying in a dream, I will
not be the same thing as flying in the physical waking world. Similarly, if I am walking,
it is not precisely the same thing. And one of my favorite questions about dreams, which
really applies to almost any dream phenomenon, but I enjoy applying it in this specific spot,
is what is the source of the analog of light in dreaming? What is it that produces the
experience of illumination in dreaming? And I think this is a very important and fascinating
question. It's the kind of question one wants to get married to, right? It's such a profound
question that the goal isn't to answer it, which would of course dismiss it, but rather
to keep relating with it more and more deeply over time and allow it to resonate with the
and continue to reveal new features of its nature as we continue the quest. It's a question
I've fallen in love with, right? And so it's the kind of thing I want to marry rather
than just answer and get divorced from. And I think there are many important questions
