and forms and environments and transformations. For example, just to give you some example,
my viewpoint could be traveling along the ground next to the earth with nobody and seeing strange
transformations of the environment. So I think that's a good point.
That's just one example there. I mean I could give hundreds if I wanted to take the time.
But I found that the hypnagogic transformations of consciousness are very unusual and unexpected,
often bizarre, on the way to dreaming. And this would happen after, by the way, the hypnagogic
transformation of consciousness. So I think that's a good point.
And this would happen after, by the way, the fundamental transformation from waking to sleeping
that if we have experience of it, may produce very unusual phenomenon such as I described earlier
with tones or the felt sense of rumbling or crackling sounds or things that sound like people screaming,
things that sound like bizarre kinds of choirs. I think the imaginal experience comes after the sort of
tunnel of transformations, as I imagine it, that lead from waking consciousness into the
paradreaming that happens when we first begin to fall asleep, or at least often happens then.
And I suspect that those experiences of phenomenon are experiences of consciousness transforming
of the sort of changing of the guard of the waking mind's relatively severe grip on consciousness
being released in phases. And finally, when it's fully released, then we emerge into this
imaginal experience that's relatively familiar, even if at the hypnagogic side it can be very
bizarre and non-plot, like unplottable. If someone asked us to explain that experience,
we wouldn't even be able to formulate a linear explanation really. We might just say something
like I said, my perspective was moving through a variety of environments that changed in very
strange or unexpected ways. Whereas again, the experience of hypnopompic transformation
often involves some kind of crisis, at least for me. I'd love to hear, I'm fascinated by other people's
stories about their experiences of these transformations. And it's interesting, we can think
either of like a bell that goes down and comes up when we're sleeping, something like this,
or we can think of a bell that goes up and down, so that this is hypnagogia, this is deep sleep,
this is hypnopompia, or the other way, this is hypnagogia, this is deep sleep, this is hypnopompia.
It's okay. Today in the garden, it's very, very busy, because it's the weekend.
So one of the things that has happened, one of the reasons that I'm interested in what is the
source of light in dreaming, this question, is that I've had experiences in dreaming where,
for example, either there is no light, and I'm trying to say turn on a light or something,
or I'm in relative darkness and I'm trying to turn on a light. I've also had experiences
where the light is just absent, there's no light in the dream, and those experiences for me were
very troubling. But often if I'm dreaming in the same, if I'm having a dream that's taking
place in the same room where I'm actually asleep, there can be very unusual hypnopompic
phenomenon associated with that experience. And for me, these have taken two primary forms.
The first is the attempt to turn on light. So I'll go to my light switch, I'll try to turn the
light on, nothing happens. This led to a secondary phenomenon where I would go get my flashlight.
I would just think, oh, the power's out, you know. But what is the power in the dream?
What would actually cause the light to go on? So I'll get my flashlight and try to turn that on,
and that won't go on, and then I'll become really confused, and I'll be like, I'll have this kind
of question, right? And this is the kind of question that I was talking about earlier.
Let's say I'm in a dream. Okay. So there's a branch point that can occur in a dream where we begin
to ask a certain kind of question. For example, why am I in an ancient castle with a tiny pink
tyrannosaurus chasing me? Like, this doesn't make any sense. And that question tends to have
three possible resolutions. The first is the dream backfills. It presents you with a kind of
imaginary history that for whatever reason is sufficient to calm the concern that has arisen
as a question, and the dream just continues on largely as it was before.
Another possible outcome is that the question becomes formal. The state-checking aspect of
consciousness gets involved, and this produces an irresolvable conflict, and that leads to us
waking up. And I have a neologism for this. I call this three branch thing a grunge, partly
because it's a branch. So the first is that the dream sort of backfills a history that satisfies
the question, and you go on dreaming. The second, well, they don't have any specific order, but as
I'm enumerating them. The second is the question becomes formalized. State-checking becomes
involved. That leads to, you realize like, oh, I'm dreaming and you wake up. And the third is the
relatively gentle intrusion, so that the dream doesn't just collapse like a bubble. The relatively
gentle intrusion of an aspect of waking consciousness, and this leads to lucidity, the awareness that
one is dreaming, and the wide range of phenomenon that are possible under that
agis in that circumstance. And a lot of people who are interested in dreaming are really
interested in lucid dreaming. And I consider lucid dreaming to be a unique subset of the
possibilities of dreaming experience, and a fascinating one, and one that can certainly be
exciting and astonishing and educational. But I think of it as the gentle intrusion into the
paracosmal storm that is a dream of waking consciousness. And the reason I say gentle is that if the
waking consciousness intrudes to forcefully the manifold, the bubble made of bubbles of dreaming
tends to collapse and we awaken. So I think of lucidity as the relatively gentle, tangential
intrusion of certain aspects of waking consciousness that then are allowed to play within the
dreamscape, within the paracosm, as faculties. And this is certainly astonishing and something worthy
of exploration. However, at the same time, it's not the same as an ordinary dream. And there may be
features of ordinary dreaming that are very important to preserve that can be lost if we're
consistently having lucid dreaming. Again, I say maybe. I just have a modest concern about that.
I'm not making any kind of absolute assertion. I'm just saying the dreaming mind's unique
anatomy and activity may be important to leave undisturbed by the waking mind's agendas and
faculties and impositions. So that it may be important that we have that even if we're capable of
lucid dreaming, that we also have non-lucid dreaming. And it may also be important that, and this is
something that would rarely occur to people, it may be important that we have dreams that we don't
remember, right? That we don't transfer the plot of into waking consciousness because these are two
different kinds of things. A dream that is entirely unremembered by waking consciousness is a different
experience from one that can be remembered, plotted, described, recorded, and so on. So I think that there
are many aspects of our dreaming experience that are important to consider with great care. And to be
aware, to have awareness that these aspects may be very delicate in some ways, and may need to be
protected from the relatively penetrative and intrusive aspects of our waking thought, ideation,
knowledge seeking, conceptual minds, linguistic intelligence, and so on, cultural intelligences,
and so on. Dreaming is, it can be useful to think of dreaming as a universe unto itself, but one that the
faculties we depend on in our waking consciousness are reliant on. In other words, the dreaming we do creates a
supportive understructure for our waking consciousness. I'm going to circle back now to dreams that happen in the
same room I'm in, attempts to turn on the lights, and so on and so forth. Often in these hypnopompic
experiences, again, I'll try to turn the light on, that won't work, I'll go for my flashlight, that won't work, now I'm at a
grunge, now I'm at a place where I'm going to ask, hey, what's going on here? What could possibly cause both my
light and my flashlight to not work? And that represents the introduction of state checking, and so on and so forth.
What often happens here is I will now encounter some unusual physical phenomenon. In one case, there were some stones
hanging on fishing line from the ceiling, and they were moving about in a kind of jerky, sort of magnetic way, and I grabbed
them, and it was a terrifying feeling of this profound force, this sort of metaphysical or electrical force. And another
time, I had the same kind of experience where I grabbed a door handle, and something was yanking it back and forth, really
jerkily, with profound power. And I think these are hypnopompic experiences of something related to the nature of dreaming
and the nature of the transformations of consciousness that are happening, particularly when we're in the between
phase, right? So I've had a variety, I've also experienced on the hypnopompic side sleep paralysis, which is a truly frightening
thing. Generally it feels like one's about to die, can't move, can't breathe, often can't see, maybe you feel that you've
opened your eyes and you still can't see. A couple of those experiences, eventually I decided to go with sleep paralysis
because I was really curious about what would happen, even though it seemed like it would be lethal. It wasn't. The one time I was
able to do that, what happened was, well this is my waking world description anyway, I had decided that the next time I
experienced this, I was going to let go. And it didn't take very long for that to happen. And it was actually, it happened
right after one of those experiences of grabbing onto something that was jerking around in a very frightening way. And then I awoke
and then I was paralyzed and blind and couldn't, seemed that I couldn't breathe. And I just decided I'm letting go. And in that moment
it seemed that my consciousness rose up from my torso, came out through the top of my head, and emerged into a completely inexplicable state.
There was no memory of myself, of Darren. There was no memory of my humanity, or any of the things associated with it at all. There was no memory of the
world, or objects, or colors, or light, or sound, or any of the sensory phenomenon that we're, you know, familiar with.
And although I don't actually understand what happened, one way I might describe it, was that I was what seemed to be an enormous, serpentine movement.
I was like a gigantic black snake in blackness. There was nothing to see. There was nothing to do but to move in this sinuous fashion.
And that movement was ecstatic. Every time I made this movement, it was more ecstatic than the last time. And it seemed somehow, at least upon awakening, I thought of it this way,
that that movement was the cause of all movement, that I was omnipotently the prime mover. I was that thing whose movement caused all other movement.
And it was absolutely ecstatic, but there was no sense of identity, or self, or other, or even of activity. There was no distinguishing sense.
There was just the felt sense of the ecstasy of making this kind of serpentine movement in a field of nothing.
And that went on for some time. And then there was this sort of very sudden transformation of consciousness where I came back into my human body and identity and thought.
And some little voice inside me, the voice of a child perhaps, said with great excitement something like, you were a monster.
And I was fascinated by this experience because it was unlike anything, it was unlike any other experience I've ever had.
And it was certainly an experience of like non-human. It was a non-human experience. There was no, there was nothing human about it.
I have no way to describe it. I don't know how to classify it. I don't need to know.
I just understand that the one time I let go into sleep paralysis, this very astonishing phenomenon occurred.
And I think this is the kind of, I mean by the way, that's the kind of thing that might be meant when we refer to visionary experience.
This was a kind of visionary experience that resulted from me releasing during a hypnopompic experience of sleep paralysis.
Okay, that's a lot of sneezes.
There's so many things to discuss.
So yeah, one of the things that I've only recently come to understand is that I'm dreaming when I'm falling asleep and I'm dreaming between sleeping and awakening.
I don't know what happens in the deep middle of those two states.
It's possible that there's dreaming going on there, but I may or may not remember it.
And sometimes, you know, the ability to remember dreams can change radically in different phases of our lives.
I've had situations where, for example, I was capable of remembering seven or eight dreams in great detail.
I've had other situations where I can only really remember the dreams that take place just before I've awakened and there's varying degrees of detail.
The use of various kinds of drugs changes dreaming experience.
Alcohol changes dreaming experience radically.
The use of marijuana appears to largely transform partly obliterate dreaming experience, though each, you know, your mileage may vary.
Each person is unique and will respond at least somewhat uniquely to the ongoing introduction of intoxicants.
But alcohol and marijuana both seem to have very deleterious effects on our dreaming experience in general.
And in my own experience, the cessation of use of either of those drugs after having used them for some time is likely to produce very profuse and sometimes, you know, chaotic experiences of dreaming.
As our dreaming mind sort of comes back online, so to speak.
Again, everyone's experience is going to be a little different.
Psychedelics probably also have effects on dreaming.
And one thing that I really want to highlight is something that many of us have never experienced, unfortunately.
Which is pretty much everything we do.
Like our daily lives affect our dreaming.
Our work affects our dreaming.
Our relationships affect our dreaming.
Random encounters and situations we have in life affect our dreaming.
I think, I know from my own experience that I will have dreams of historical circumstances.
Previous places I've worked are very common.
Occasionally, previous lovers or friends or relationships will appear.
So in a sense, the dreaming mind can act a bit as a lifetime library and it can pull from various epochs of our lives and even mix them together.
But what I'm wanting to highlight here is that many of us have some kind of religious or ceremonial experience.
And authentic ceremonial experience can produce actually what I would consider to be a unique kind of dreaming.
A kind of dreaming that is accessible through no other transport.
And I have recently had some ceremonial experience, thankfully, that definitely produced echoes of very profound, deep, rich dreams that were clearly the result of that ceremonial experience.
Now, that's such a broad catch-all term. What do I mean by ceremony?
And I don't have the time to explain it, but when we engage in ceremonial activity, particularly in ceremonial activity that is ancient,
that has ancient traditions associated with it, particularly with peoples who have been associated with this ceremonial activity for thousands or tens of thousands of years.
It's interesting. There's an owl pellet here.
Those experiences can have profound effects on our dreaming and can actually produce kinds of dreams that are entirely unlike what would happen in our dreaming world otherwise.
There are forms of travel that can happen in dreaming. There are forms of participation in contexts that are unfamiliar to us, that have never been encountered before in our actual lives.
There are a wide array of phenomenon that can occur in dreaming when we're exposed to ceremonial and participate in ceremonial activity while we are awake.
The terrain is so mysterious and astonishing. And I suppose to circle back to where I began.
Before we had complex minds that were fully enculturated and languaged, we played. We had play. And we had imagination.
Imagination and play are experiences that depend on the capacity to have what we might refer to as not exactly lucid waking, but it's the obverse of lucid dreaming.
It's where aspects of the dreaming consciousness are gently introduced into the waking consciousness so as to not entirely collapse waking consciousness into dreaming and yet to adventure in waking consciousness with aspects of our dreaming mind guiding and present in that experience.
And this is one of the ways that I think of the play of children and the imaginal, particularly the imaginal play of children, I think of this as, you know, they say we grew out of it.
I don't believe that. I think what happened is instead, more likely anyway, what happened is that our process somewhat like the analogy I'm about to make.
Imagine the consciousness is in the beginning pure flow, right? It has no structure. It's just flows and the flows may form liquid structures like turbulence and things like this, but they don't form solid structure.
So consciousness is in the beginning a lot like water. And what happens is at night when we dream, we begin to establish structured memory.
And at first there's like a tiny little island in the middle of a dreaming ocean. And then each time we fall asleep and dream and our memories become more structured, there's a little more of the island.
And the island disappears at night, right? The oceans rise up and we just dream wildly. And then by day we're having more or less structured experience.
And every night there's a little more structure in the island. The dreaming waters roll over it at night. When they recede, there's more structure.
And this is really just the restructuring of memory and of what I'll refer to as representational memory and representational cognition. Ideas, models, names, language, cultural norms, cultural expectations, so on and so forth.
So over time the island of structured consciousness is growing. And in the beginning it's not significant enough to inhibit our dreaming consciousness while we're awake.
But over time it becomes significant enough that eventually it more and more inhibits that consciousness, it more and more inhibits our imagination.
And so it's not that we grow out of play or the kind of imagination that can turn a stick into a ship and a little bit of water into an ocean and so on and so forth.
What happens instead is that the structured aspects of consciousness submerge the dreaming mind upon which the experiences of insight, creativity, imagination, and meaning depend.
Here is another owl pellet, an old one, an old owl pellet.
I find these very interesting and I sometimes seek them because, yeah, is there another one? Nope.
Because there are specific trees that are preferred by the raptors to perform their digestive activities in.
And particularly this specific activity, the regurgitation of undigested prey material.
And there's something relevant there about something relevant in the regurgitation of this undigested material. There's something mysteriously relevant to the topic at hand.
So I think our ancestors, our distant ancestors and Aboriginal peoples and Indigenous peoples have a very different experience of their relationship with representational cognition than we moderns do.
And I believe that ceremonies are in part the active elicitation of the dreaming consciousness while we are awake and together.
So that we begin to dream as a community together while awake.
And there are thousands of different kinds of examples of this.
But I'm afraid us moderns have replaced this with things like TV shows and movies and YouTube videos and things on screens.
And I'd be remiss if I didn't mention that our exposure to these things has transformed our dreaming dramatically.
And in fact may inhibit and damage some of the faculties with which we dream by replacing them with external representations.
And in case it isn't obvious, this is a long-standing habit that has driven and advanced what we refer to as our modernity,
which in many cases really comprises a series of amputations.
A series of catastrophic losses of faculties, abilities and relationships that were fundamentally intrinsic to our humanity before they were replaced by conveniences, machines, technologies, various kinds of slavery,
being trapped in boxes with windows in them, inside which nothing moves except that thing on a screen.
The only thing that moves inside those boxes are machines, things on screens, or if we're lucky, pets.
Maybe we have a few house plants and a breeze comes through the house and we see that living movement of the house plants that is magical and I think transproductive.
Can induce trans in us, by the way, here's another.
This is the owl pellet that I first saw and this is a relatively recently exuded pellet that's been stepped on a few times.
So I'm very concerned about returning to us, to our common experience, the faculties and abilities that come with dreaming.
I think that before we had radio, we certainly had telepathy, before we had televisions, we used to dream together.
And I've had experiences of dreaming together with other people that are astonishing and validatable.
There are a vast array of aspects of our interiority and our humanity, our intelligence, our dreaming consciousness that moderns have no experience of.
So I suppose that I'm encouraging and want to see a renaissance where we recover these things together.
Through questing and curiosity and experiment, through fascination, mutual encouragement, celebration, through ceremony.
That we learn to recover the incredible array of possibilities and faculties that are native to the world of our dreaming minds.
