like this that relate to our human experience in our lives. And we're trained to entertain
a question primarily in order to answer it, but that's really like getting a divorce,
right? That's the end of the quest. And most of the good questions are so deep and so
profound that an answer is a provisional step in a process of relating with such questions.
And particularly where we're talking about something as staggeringly complex and beautiful
and profound as dreaming, we want to be very, very, very careful about accepting relatively
unsophisticated answers or explanations, right? Because in fact, to explain literally means
to flatten, to make like a flat map of something. And when you flatten a dream, what you get
is a plot, right? None of us actually, well, none of us is the wrong word, the wrong phrase.
It's incredibly difficult to remember a dream. So I think I'll branch to this aspect of the
topic for a moment. But before I do, I'm just going to enumerate a few more unusual situations
in dreaming. For me, one of the unusual kinds of dreams is a dream that takes place in the
same room I am dreaming. This often suggests that I'm about to have an unusual experience
or that I am in the between of sleeping and waking on the hypnopompic side, and I'm
unusual phenomenon and consciousness may emerge. So I think that's another interesting
feature of dreaming is that occasionally we will dream in the place where we're actually
asleep or so it will seem to us. We will dream in the room we are sleeping. And this often
for me anyway, turns into some kind of non-ordinary experience. And I'll discuss some of those
experiences a little bit later. The questions, the questions. I think we should be cautious
about believing the waking mind's derivation of a dream. If someone asks us to tell them
what we dreamt, generally what will be produced is not a dream. So when we're asked to remember
a dream or to describe a dream, what we generally produce is a plot. We will say this happened,
then that happened, then this happened. It's not actually clear from careful relation with
my own dreams that there's a linear sequence of events in actual dreaming experience. The
linear sequence may well be something imposed upon the unique form of memory that dreaming
brings to life, the unique aspects and faculties of memory that occur in dreaming. I think that
that linearity and the idea that we've had an actual conversation in language are two
things that the waking mind produces post-hoc after the experience. So ordinarily if someone
asks us to tell them our dream, what we will produce is an explanation, a flattening. And
that flattening will generally be in the form of a plot. This happened, then that happened,
then this happened, so on and so forth. I felt these things, I saw these people, the situation
occurred and then I awoke. I doubt it. I have good reason to believe that the nature
of dreaming is very different from the nature of a linear plot, a linear narrative, which
is the imprimatur of the waking mind, not the dreaming mind. And I also suspect that
for us to be able to honestly communicate a dream, we would have to begin dreaming again.
We would have to have the dream again. Because in dreaming, the environments and players and
circumstances and situations all possess non-ordinary domains of identity and meaning that in our
ordinary waking consciousness are relatively impossible for us to have, with a few exceptions,
one of them being visionary experience, another one being, and I want to caution people about
this because I think it's very dangerous to make certain kinds of comparisons here.
But another experience we can have where things have non-ordinary connotations and dimensions
of identity, where identity acquires a much less flattened array of features that are
experienceable and meaningful to us, it can be under the influence of certain drugs, particularly
perhaps psychedelic drugs. But I am very hesitant to suggest that we should use psychedelic
drugs to seek these states. I think it's very important for us to acquire experience with
what we would refer to as our unintoxicated waking minds that have capacities that actually
far exceed those offered by psychedelic drugs. And I would like for us to have those experiences
without the necessity of using an intoxicant. And I think that when we use an intoxicant,
it introduces features that we might really be better off without. Now this is just a
personal perspective. Other people will argue and I certainly don't, I'm not trying to
tell other people what to think or believe. I'm trying to say something like, I want
to have, I would like my child to have an actual adventure rather than being introduced
to adventure by something like video games. And I have the same concern about intoxicants.
I want us to have the adventures that our minds and our awareness and our consciousness are
capable of natively. Because if we are first exposed to intoxicants, we may then become
confused. We may think, oh, intoxicants are the doorway to these kinds of experiences
which they are not. They're certainly not the doorway. Even if they may sometimes be
a doorway, they cannot be the doorway. And additionally, the experiences available through
the use of most intoxicants and psychedelics seem to me at once both extremely intense,
which can be dangerous, and there are other dangers involved, as well as somehow often,
maybe not in all cases, but often untrustworthy. There's an aspect of them that I am suspicious
of. And this was true even from the first experiences of my own with psychedelics in
the 1970s when I was a teenager. I recall some of my first experiences and their profound
intensity and the amazingly otherworldly qualities of consciousness. But I also felt like something
is missing here. There's a promise implicit in this experience that isn't being fulfilled.
And what would it be like to have that promise fulfilled in my actual waking experience? I
didn't realize at the time that one day I would discover what that was like, and it
was far more astonishing than anything I could ever imagine, and made the experiences that
I had with psychedelics seem very trivial indeed in comparison. So I want us to have
profound dreaming and visionary experience. And until we are able to have this with our
more or less ordinary mind and body, I am very personally opposed to the introduction
of intoxicants into the playing field. That's a story for another day, but I wanted to put
that on the table. To return to the previous topic, what happens when we try to explain
a dream? We get what I would think of as the fossilized remains of dreaming, we get a plot.
And if we could actually tell a dream, I believe that both people involved, the one telling
it and the recipient or the listener, would have to begin dreaming. And even if they were
to do this, which isn't entirely impossible, very unlikely, it still wouldn't be the same
dream that the dreamer was expressing. So I don't think it's incredibly difficult to
communicate anything authentic about dreaming, primarily because the mind that uses language
and explanations and has models and so on and so forth is not the mind of dreaming. And
the mind of dreaming doesn't care about those things very much. In fact, if you begin to
wonder, for example, in a dream, this person who is my sister appears to me today to be
a man. Why is that? That's the kind of wondering that can actually lead to a variety of phenomena.
So, when we have questions about things like, how did I get here? Why is it daytime but
there's no sun? Because often I don't recall any experience of ever seeing the sun in a
dream. I've once seen stars, at least once, and that was a very peculiar and non-ordinary
dreaming experience. And this goes back to what is the source of the analog of light
that is the illumination in dreaming. We could state the question more simply, what is the
source of light in dreaming? But it's clear that whatever the illumination in dreaming
is isn't exactly light. And there's lots of interesting features of this question that
I'll come back to in a moment. So the attempt to tell a dream, or even to record a dream,
usually will mean to record a plot. And a plot is not a dream. A plot is an explanation,
a flattening, into linear events of certain aspects of a dream that we are capable of
preserving across the bridge between dreaming consciousness and waking consciousness. And
that is a very strange bridge. And I think it's very important to become intimate with
this transformation, this between place. The one that happens as we are falling asleep,
there is an array of transformations that occur that we can distinguish between different
phases. And similarly, from sleeping to waking, there is an array of transformations that
occur. And I think it's profoundly intriguing and highly charged to become aware, to maintain
consciousness somehow while these transitions are going on, or to be accidentally exposed
to the transformations because we are not, as we would ordinarily be, we are not merely
unconscious, which is what happens apparently most of the time for many people. We're just
not aware of the astonishing things that occur between being awake and being authentically
asleep, and between being asleep and becoming authentically awake. And those are some astonishing
transformations, trust me. Some of them are quite terrifying. Some of them would intrigue
us to such a degree that we would be hard pressed not to see them as spiritually significant
or as implying a spiritual backdrop to all these phenomenon.
So our records of dreaming are not very good. They are crude, they are the waking minds
explanation or flattening into a linear narrative. And my actual experience of dreaming is that
the nature of linearity in dreaming is suspect. It's not clear at all. I mean, one might ask
if we have the experience of things happening in a dream and they're not linear, it doesn't
go from this to that to that to that to that to that, what is happening? And two of the
models that we can use are spirals and concentric circles. And both of these forms are much more
like the spirit of dreaming than the linear plot model is. Nonetheless, it's relatively
natural for us to produce a linear plot from a dream. Most of us who have attempted to
record dreams or keep a dream diary, which by the way affects and deeply influences the
dreaming mind. And it's something that I suggest strongly for anyone who's interested in learning
more about dreaming. And I hope you all are because it's one of the most mysterious and
fascinating aspects of our human experience. Every night our consciousness produces these
wild, sometimes wildly beautiful or terrifying paracosms, and we inhabit them. And these
activities are fundamental to the nature and health of our conscious awareness, our minds,
our waking minds, our intelligence, our memory, and so on. So I encourage you to explore the
and have the great adventure of your human existence that dreaming is the doorway to,
is a profound doorway to. Now, one might imagine that it's very difficult to produce a spiral
line story, and yet I think it's no problem at all for the dream, or a story of concentric
circles like those seen in a pond where one drops a stone into a pond. And yet again,
the dreaming mind is so different from waking consciousness. And in a way, in comparison
so magical, that in that state of awareness, those forms are natural to it. And the reason
that I've been able to discover this is that I've had really unusual experiences with dreaming.
One of the most unusual was, by the way, many of those experiences happen in the in-between
phase, in the from waking to sleeping, the hypnagogic phase, or the from sleeping to
waking, the hypnophobic phase. Whenever we're able to have some kind of awareness of these
transformations, it's extremely common to have wildly unexpected and unusual experiences.
In fact, I would argue that they are unexpected, because they're so unlike our ordinary experiences
of waking and consciousness, and even of dreaming, that they can be really shocking, they can
be highly motivating, they can be terrifying, they can be destabilizing, they can even be
sort of parapsychotic, because in many cases they are incoherent, they are not fundamentally
coherent states of consciousness. Sometimes I have imagined that on the way to sleep,
I travel through a tunnel of something like concentric circles, and this tunnel is conical,
and as I travel through this tunnel, various kinds of phenomenal experience can occur,
various kinds of sounds or sensations, rumbling, crackling, screaming, electrical feelings,
tones, weird music, not otherworldly music, all kinds of things, as if my consciousness
is transforming in phases over time.
There's something similar that happens from sleeping to waking, but its character is different.
So in my experience, the hypnagogic transformations can produce a variety of very unusual sensory
and sensational phenomenon, whereas the hypnopompic phenomenon experiencing that transition tend
to produce things that are wildly, well, experiences such as, for example, the hypnopompic phenomenon
for example sleep paralysis, or some other common experiences of the hypnopompic aspect
are the man at the end of the bed, or at the doorway, or at the window, the sort of bad,
dark man phenomenon. Often this man is just seen as a shadowy figure who is felt as being
malevolent, or dangerous, threatening. Sometimes this man has a hat, very uncommonly people
can see the man's face, and this experience seems to be relatively more common among females
than males, and then there's another relatively common experience which has been remarked upon
throughout history of the felt sense of something sitting on one's chest, like maybe
a little monster, or a goblin, or something like this, a pressure, something on the chest.
And I think this has to do with the fact that it's not just our brain that is dreaming.
When I was very young, I've been fascinated with dreaming since I was a child, and I never
really believed the relatively dismissive explanations of adults.
I learned to distrust adult dismissive explanations when I was very small, particularly about
dreaming, because they would mostly just dismiss it. They would just say, like, well, that's
just some nonsense that happens to you while you're asleep. Clearly that's not what's
going on. In fact, it turns out that if you can't, from what we understand from some research,
and it's still early days, if an animal is prohibited from dreaming, it will soon perish,
it will lose the capacity to maintain homeostasis, meaning to maintain its body temperature in
pretty short order, about a week, and at least for the animals they killed this way. Also,
dreaming is very clearly associated with regeneration of certain aspects of the physical body, certain
organs, physical metabolism, cell cleansing, things like this. This is my own perspective.
I'm not sure there's a lot of research that supports this yet. Even as a child, I could
feel that when I was dreaming, something was happening in my belly. I think our guts are
much more involved in dreaming than we imagine. Dreaming is not a thing that just happens
in the brain, even though we're inclined to think that the brain is the locus of consciousness.
It's very clear to me from much of my experience that that's not the only thing going on, and
that to the degree that's true, it's true of certain aspects of consciousness.
So, if we are, you know, we may not remember our dreams every night. We may never remember
dreams. Sometimes we awaken feeling that we've dreamt but having no memory of the actual
content. Yet, I suspect most of us dream when we are sleeping, some dreaming is going on.
And if we don't dream, something catastrophic begins to happen. Our health suffers, memory
suffers. Research has shown that dreams and dreaming are crucial to structuring short-term
and probably long-term memory, so that there's a profound link between our dreams and our
memories. No dreaming, less ability to structure memory. No dreaming, memory may begin to break
down. And in fact, we may someday discover a link between certain kinds of problems with
dreaming and certain kinds of cognitive damage, such as dementia and Alzheimer's and so on.
Nemosany was the mother of the muses to the Greeks. That's, I think, M-N-E-M-O-S-Y-N-E,
nemosany. She was the mother of the muses and these are the arts that memory depends upon,
excuse me, that depend upon memory. And in case it's not clear, pretty much everything we do with
our minds is fundamentally dependent on memory. So if dreaming is the origin, experience,
that structures and refreshes and generates the capacities of memory, it's much more fundamental
to the nature of being human and to our awareness than anyone has guessed yet. Or that, then at
least, then it is common for people to suppose. And I think this is true. I think dreaming is absolutely
fundamental to the experience of consciousness. And it is refreshing and regenerative and nourishing
and supportive of all kinds of different aspects of our waking mind ability that we depend on to
navigate in the world and to understand our own experience and particularly to derive meaning from
anything. Because the derivation of meaning is almost an act of dreaming while awake.
Another thing that is relatively uncommonly remarked upon is that it seems to me there are
at least two different phases of dreaming and they correlate with hypnagogic, the hypnagogic
transformation and the hypnopompic transformation. So that we have particular kinds of dreaming
experiences or dreaming experience on the way to sleep and some of that experience is quite
bizarre and would actually be impossible to pose as a narrative. And I've had many experiences of this
hypnagogic transformation of consciousness and it can be really bizarre and plotless. Often it's just
an experience of some very unusual situation or circumstance that may involve nonsensical constructs
