A world from which I believe our waking minds are born, a world which I believe our waking minds eventually overwhelm and dominate.
And I think this is unhealthy and we need to be capable of producing a kind of medicine for our modern awareness, our modern consciousness.
That returns to us many of the faculties and opportunities that have been lost, transformed, represented and sold back to us in useless counterfeits or in toxic counterfeits.
And this is one of the common ongoing agendas of that very oxymoronic thing we call progress.
For me, progress would be an ever-deepening understanding of and access to the fundamental nature of our consciousness, our humanity, our interiority, our dreaming faculties.
And I would call what we're doing instead either disease or digress at best.
So there are so many questions here that I haven't yet been able to address or approach.
But hopefully I've at least catalyzed your curiosity, your imagination, your wonder, the sense of awe that I myself have at just the astonishing beauty
and sophistication and mystery of our interiority, of those faculties from which our minds are born.
And unfortunately, which waking consciousness too often dominates and submerges.
The questions are wide open. Nobody knows the answers to these things.
And I wouldn't trust anyone's answers. These are quests we must embark upon together with and for each other.
We must embark upon personally with great fervency and reverence and wonder and awe and curiosity, imagination, creativity.
And I'm looking forward to what we can accomplish together and to the future and to the places these questions can lead us, to the experiences they can lead us into.
I trust them. I trust the dreaming mind. I trust the origins of our complex consciousness.
And I trust that within them we will find, we will rediscover relationships that have long been lost and without which our humanity is somehow made more shallow.
So for today, thank you for joining me. I am here in the living world which I think is always dreaming.
We are here together and there are opportunities before us more astonishing than any stories we've ever been told by science or religion or anything.
And I hope that together we can pursue those opportunities, rediscover them, embody them, share them and return them to the children of our people and to the living world from which they emerge as a natural and beautiful expression.
Thank you so much for joining me.
Thank you.
