or why it appears to us that there's a limit to the signal transmission speed of light
which has to be the fastest transmission speed that we can imagine given what physics has
revealed to us about the physical things and the energetic things and so on.
So we don't have any other way of knowing to lead us in this direction.
And something like a unity of physics, biology, philosophy and what we might call seeking
would be much more likely to produce progress in that domain than physics by itself.
If the universe were fundamentally intelligent, this is the last thing you'd expect to hear
from a physicist because they'd have no grasp on it.
How do you measure the mind with which you measure?
If you go looking at physical reality and the nature of organisms and their relationships
and their character, you have to include that thing that science tends to get rid of, the
unique character of any individual situation or circumstance.
The goal of the physical experiment is to get rid of that.
Now we sweep that stuff aside, it's not that it's not reliable, it's just that you can't
get a formal grip on it, though the possibilities of modern heuristic learning computational
systems, which would be or even heuristic developing systems, which might be my two-wordy
translation of what people mistakenly refer to as artificial intelligence, I think we
should be really careful about that term.
We who are not yet very intelligent are about to build actual intelligences in machines.
Okay, I mean some kind of tragic melodramatic comedy skit probably ensues if that goes forward.
I just don't believe that what machines do is the same thing as intelligence.
I would happily classify it as a subset, but I wouldn't call it intelligence and I very
much doubt that something muchly resembling minds will emerge in that regard, though I
could easily be proven wrong.
I'm half on the fence.
I think we should preserve a fundamental distinction between minds like ours, the minds that build
machines and the relatively straight up mechanical results of our building those machines and
setting them on certain tasks and so on.
That phenomenon that happens inside the machine is mechanical computation and pretty much nothing
else.
There might be some mechanical computation going on in our brains and if we use that
lens to look at our brains, we will certainly see something that resembles mechanical computation.
But there are 30 other important lenses that we should be using six or seven of.
Whatever is going on in there is not and cannot be merely mechanical computation.
And if it's computation, I think biocomputation, whatever that might mean, is a different
thing than what happens in computers.
There's this ancient sort of idea that it's possible to make something that's so complex
and sophisticated that it somehow magically transcends being mechanical.
The problem with the humans is we can always redefine fundamental root terms and ideas
in such a way that our physical creations, our artifacts, satisfy the new definition.
And this is what I think is very dangerous in our thinking because the fact that machines
simulate the process we call learning does not mean they are learning.
We shouldn't use the word learn for what they're doing because what they're actually
doing is a complex layered filtering of databases to solve problems that they've been structured
to receive as input.
And when you do that over and over again on vast datasets, you get a structured result
that's highly effective in certain limited ways.
But I'm not ready to call that intelligence, and I don't think training the database is
equivalent to learning.
The learning word should stay with the biologicals, in my view, probably forever, but at least
for the foreseeable future.
So the goal of creating a mind within a machine is a fascinating goal, and now that we have
such machines, it's hard to not feel some of the gravity in that direction.
My first interest in computers orbited that specific goal, which was the possibility of
building a friend.
An implicit in that goal was something much stranger.
It was the desire to know a non-human intelligence and something that might be truly intelligent
as opposed to the stuff we're bumbling around with here on Earth mostly.
So in a sense, it was similar to the goal of wanting to meet and converse with and get
to know an alien, a being from another world or universe.
Now of course, I can tell that I'm surrounded by incredibly sophisticated intelligences,
at least equal and many far surpassing the strange representational intelligence of humans.
But I know firsthand that the nature of time space is nothing like an empty interval between
the physically condensed objects and the nebulae and the galaxies and pulsars and black holes
and these functional objects.
You know, we're trained to think they're doing something and we're trained to think
of them as objects.
In a sense, they're often thought of as machines.
But I would argue that even given the physics knowledge that we've acquired and the small
degree of knowledge of the Sun we've acquired, the Sun is being something in time space.
It might be more correct to say the Sun is being someone in time space and it is fulfilling
roles that physics nearly must fail to conceive of and so to the Earth and the Moon.
These are not merely the phenomena that physics can reveal to us.
We don't know what they are.
No one knows what the Sun is.
In bold point of fact, without the Sun there would not be any knowing.
Knowing is a side effect of what the Sun is and is doing and we have no grasp of this
as moderns.
I'm not asking us to be religious, I'm asking us to be realistic.
If we understand anything about how things arise and depart in time space, from the cell,
to an animal, to a mountain, to a forest, to the Earth, to the Sun, then we realize that
there are root phenomena without which we wouldn't be having theories about anything.
No Earth, no theories.
No rivers and oceans, zero theories.
Sun goes away, the whole concept of meaning is gone.
There are no more minds around here.
So we must understand that our minds, I think it's at least crucial to entertain the idea
that our minds are peculiar crystallizations or lesser expressions of, hypostasis of, the
nature of time space.
You're not going to get a theory that encompasses that, you'd have to skip back before there
were minds, right?
A true theory of everything is formally impossible and probably, this is mathematically provable,
you know, using something similar to what Goode will use to prove this about formal systems
in general.
You're not going to capture the minds in which theories arise and while you could, and the
other problem here is that almost all these things are infinite topics.
They're not topics where you get to somewhere on the ladder and now you're done.
Now you know what everything is, right?
Now you know what everything does and why it does it and why there are things at all
instead of nothing and so on, right?
That still doesn't tell you what they are.
The nature of minds is the nature of beings in relation with each other, orbiting this
star in time space and it's the relationships that determine identity, not the functions
and I'm not arguing that we should, you know, be angry at physicists or anything like this.
That's nothing like what I'm saying.
Physics is going to continue and develop and is one of the most profound paths of knowledge
we have.
But why is it often a corner by itself?
We could do without the religiosity that believes that physics tells us what things are.
It never does that.
All it does is communicate properties of features of reality that we can distinguish and let's
face it, you know, we're not all that good at distinguishing them yet.
We've been doing this formally for what, 150 years, 200 years?
Not very long, an eye blink.
I think if we develop well as humans, if we develop our cognition and our awareness properly,
we'll get something that transcends physics, that physics is a special case of in the same
way that Newtonian physics is a special case of relativity and so on.
I think we'll find a way of knowing that gives us an entirely different motivation for asking
these questions.
The motivation having to do more with the nature of intelligence than with particles
and the nature of organisms and biocognitive hyper-systems and the kind of phenomenon that
our minds arise from here on Earth moment to moment.
It's kind of bizarre that we think we could travel in space for a long time because it
supposes strange things like human minds can exist out of proximity with the sun.
That might not be true.
There's a lot we don't know about minds in the sun and their linkages.
And also that we could exist separated from the biosphere.
Of course, it seems likely thinking about it rationally, but there are lots of reasons
why it's unlikely that we've not been imaginative enough yet to consider.
In any case, function isn't identity.
And to know identity is a personal thing.
You have to have something like a personal relationship with what you're knowing the
identity of somehow.
And this is part of the promise of religion.
You'll have a personal relationship with the transcendental as God or beings or Shanyada.
You'll have a personal experience, a direct first-hand.
And in equations, not in logic, not in thinking.
In the root of yourself, you'll directly experience the divine.
This is the promise.
The physicists, most of them, many of whom may be physicalists, want us to think that
either the idea of anything transcendental to our common ways of thinking is unnecessary
and can't be tested, so never mind.
It's not true that it can't be tested, even if it's a little shy, first off.
It's so ironic because the minds with which they formulate these concerns are transcendental
to those concerns, and the minds in which they formulate anything are transcendental
to anything that they formulate.
And so, there's always this feature of like a cat chasing its tail in a circle because
those who want a truly complete theory or who want us to think, for example, that the
universe is fundamentally computational or in a wildly ridiculous assertion, the universe
is a simulation.
And they probably have a special meaning for simulation, right?
But if we take it as the ordinary meaning, it's truly ridiculous and silly.
That's probably a mistake of interpretation nonetheless.
There's the simple root question.
Is it true, and how could we know, if it were, that the phenomena of our experience are purely
physical and have no transcendental properties?
Well, that can't be true because even if they're purely physical, whatever that might
mean, which is hard to understand, actually.
Even if they were, as we conceive of them, in the grave simplicity of our conceptions,
we would all admit that they have qualities, properties, functions, interactions, and relationships
that we are not only unaware of, we either don't have a concept for at all and thus could
not notice or would be very unlikely to notice.
And some percentage of these, it would be impossible for us to become aware of regardless
of how sophisticated our equations became.
So all features of our experience must have a layered array of things we are either extremely
unlikely to know, things we don't know, things we are extremely unlikely to know, things
that are nearly impossible to know, things we specifically can't know, and so on.
And since they have all these properties and qualities, necessarily, due to the limitation
of our grasp of them, they must be mostly transcendental to our knowledge.
It's not like, oh yeah, we got this really good knowledge now, we know 90% of what a
tree is doing, not even kind of.
We probably know 3% or less of what a tree is or is doing.
If we summed human knowledge, all the different knowledge ways, traditional ways, all these
things, we might get 3 or 5% maybe if we're lucky, I think.
So most of what's going on must be transcendental to how we think about it, and this is probably
more true of physics than anything else.
So let's start there, you know, let's start with this admission, this open admission.
We know next to nothing, and whatever's going on must be far stranger than the way we're
thinking and writing and doing equations about it, because we're still in kindergarten
as a species, though there are examples of advancement beyond maybe even high school
here and there to torture my analogy.
When I look up at the sky, oh, the star field, I certainly don't see empty space, and perhaps
I haven't acquired the profound awareness and knowledge of the ancient peoples in their
seeming simplicity, their deceptive, their seemingly deceptive simplicity.
The introduction of math and physics, and the sciences has produced a strange kind of
authorization schema in the human cognizium, and it's natural in a way because it's so
refutable.
The predictions work is the problem, and there's very few other ways of knowing that give you
a mechanical grasp on predicting the future, and in some cases reconstructing the past,
the future of some system, and of course the more we limit the system the better our predictions
become.
So I guess I'm not just arguing for more humility, I'm arguing for insight that recognizes the
limitations of the methods and systems thus far acquired and elucidated, but I'm also
concerned about the effect on our lexicon.
There are root elements in our lexicons, they're simple words like star, world, animal, plant,
eye, dream, food, friend, simple words, sun, moon.
I think for most of human history the sky was seen as a realm of beings, and the star
was at least a being, the sun, and the planets were beings, and we might think that we've
progressed by having filtered off this troubling quaint idea, but it's a mistake.
They're not ordinary beings like humans, but they're up to something, they're being someone
