So, I heard Brian Greene talking about just asking two simple questions in the course
of a discussion.
The questions weren't even being posed as answerable.
He said, effectively, what is dark matter?
What is dark energy?
And it immediately occurred to me that we only come to know things we discover in terms
of things we already know.
And most of the time, that's going to be a mistake, right?
And the other thing that occurred to me is we've confused our capacity to derive some
function of a thing, because really what he's asking is not what is dark matter, what is
dark energy.
He's asking the physicist's question, in a sense, I think, what do they do, right?
And so it seems in English and in our modern way of thinking, we confuse function with
identity and believe that if we can derive some function of something we can in some
way distinguish, even with the simple language dark matter, we're pointing at a vague something.
We're pointing it in the direction of a question, really, because more than likely the fundamental
assumptions we have about space and time are wrong or childish or extremely immature.
So if we start from a position of understanding that we don't actually know what electrons
are, we don't know what photons are.
We don't know what quantum physics implies by existing.
And again, it's not so much that we get to see the thing, only our peculiarly mechanical
grasp on certain features of something.
And this was coming up in the conversations about theories of everything.
And Green seemed to think that if Goedl was correct, and incompleteness is a fact over
all systems, that that would mean in essence we'd be stuck in the between of always having
failed systems.
With theories of everything, depending on what we mean by the phrase, this becomes important
because even with a theory of everything, the theory only exists in the language, equations,
and minds of the only intelligent species we've acknowledged that does this kind of
crazy stuff with trying to figure out what the universe is by learning things about
what it's doing, a theory of everything would necessarily entail completeness.
And this is something we keep going after as humans, we want a totally complete system.
But surely such a system would have to encompass the minds in which it is structured, the consciousness,
and the purpose of goal-seeking behavior that produces these models.
And I think it's strange that we call them laws.
I think that's very deceptive because we should realize that our ability to predict
the outcome of a situation mathematically or in a thought experiment does not in any
way imply or entail that we actually understand the phenomenon.
What it means is something much stranger, which is that we've been able to conceptualize
and formalize in equations processes the nature, the true nature of which we haven't the slightest
inkling.
We have words like energy, space, time, light, space-time, dark matter, quasar, pulsar, star.
And even if we've learned quite a bit about what our star sort of does and how to make
predictions about it and so on, that doesn't imply at all that we understand what it is.
Just to understand what it is, we would necessarily need to include the context.
That which the phenomenon we have turned our attention toward is some kind of a hypostasis
of, a lesser expression of the totality of.
And since we don't know what the totality is, and I think we're pretty confused even
about what space-time is, if we think of it in the terms of physics alone, we'll be blind.
And yet physics has such trenchant authority in directing our thinking about this.
And indeed, if another branch of knowledge has any, I don't know what it is.
But if we think deeply about intelligence, and not just the way that humans embody this,
but intelligence as a property of matter and organisms and stars, or even that it's fairly
obvious that the mixture of the star and the earth and the water and time-space produces
minds.
And it's not really the proper domain of physics to explain this, though some people might
like to think otherwise.
So the problem with Green's objections to Goethele is that Goethele's theory can be
understood to insist, in a sense, and this is just one interpretation, and perhaps it's
a flawed one, but it's not really important whether what I'm saying is true, rather whether
it's useful.
And it can be useful to understand Goethele's incompleteness theorems as formal mathematical
proof that keeps us from pretending that our systems aren't our minds plus our systems.
And the idea of a perfect system is a system that supervenes over minds.
And we have this troubling propensity as humans and scientists and researchers to think that
the phenomenon and demand that the phenomenon and assert and prove that what we're looking
at is mind-independent, is, quote, the objective facts of the actual situation, unquote.
And there's an incredible kind of hubris in this goal.
And when it's limited to contexts in which it's actually useful, it's useful.
But outside those contexts, it's very dangerous as an arbiter of identity or even explanatory
authority.
Whatever's going on in time space is strange enough and beautiful enough and vital enough
and more than merely alive enough that it produces minds.
There's no way around that, even if you say organisms and minds are an accident of time
space.
It's pretty tough to draw a hard line between the universe and those things which it emits
or is expressed as.
So even if it's an accident, the universe is still expressing its own character and potential
in the forms of nature and organisms and minds.
So the idea that you'd get a theory that you didn't need a mind for resembles, I think,
some of the concerns of the logical positivist movement that was determined to place mathematics
on an unassailable logical foundation.
And in Russell and Whitehead's Principia Mathematica, they have a go at this for 25
years, I think.
And eventually some 300 pages of piano arithmetic in, or more, two things happen.
The first is essentially they have to say, well, if you accept certain axioms as implicit
one plus one equals two, but there's the problem, that's not a complete system.
And they failed, and Goethe's incompleteness theorems were a sort of formal assertion of
the necessity of failure in any similar imperative, a complete system.
I think the idea with the logical positivists was that in theory, if we could place mathematics
on a firm logical foundation, we would then very soon possess the mechanical capacity
to compute any problem, and thus could have perfect knowledge.
It's a bold quest, and one I'm so glad we've undertaken, if only because it helped us to
understand the necessity of incompleteness in formal systems, because without minds,
formal systems aren't systems at all, and aren't even formal, and you can't collapse
the mind into the system, so that you no longer have to have something transcendental to the
language and the math and the theories that can determine not just their validity, but
their degrees of validity under certain constraints, or relieved of certain constraints.
So I think what incompleteness has to do with theories of everything is that first of all
we should say, you know, as Brian responsibly did.
When physicists sometimes use this term, they may mean different things and hopefully they'll
tell us what they mean, but essentially they mean something like the theory that unifies
mechanics, relativity, and its subsets like Newtonian physics, which could be understood
as a special case of relativity, unifies these things, because presently they're quite distinct,
and that's problematical, it means there's something we don't know yet, which of course
there always will be, but I think the other weird problem with the idea of a theory of
everything, which essentially is going to account for the particles and the quantum
things we know, and unify them, and show how perhaps relativistic, the space of relativistic
physics is a subspace of quantum physics, and it doesn't look that way, it looks like,
from what I understand anyway, they're wildly distinct and kind of don't pay attention to
each other.
But the fact that that might generally be true doesn't mean there's no link space, right,
where they definitely, either one has precedence or they, you know, dance together.
I think the humans in general get way ahead of themselves.
Having failed to understand anything like the nature of time space, or what light is
about, or is an expression of, we've taken the function for the identity.
And whenever we derive a function we think we then know, or we act like we know, in language,
what something is.
And it's absolutely clear that knowing what light does, doesn't tell us what it is.
And the same is true, really, with anything.
You know, we humans have a funny game when we meet, we might, particularly males, right,
will say, oh hey, what do you do?
As if, by the person telling us their function, we know who the person is, and clearly you
can see that's largely impossible.
There are some trivial exceptions, and a few modest ones, but, and of course it does tell
us something about them, but it's an example of that inclination to substitute function
for identity in our thought, and in our language, right.
So when Brian Green's asking, what is dark matter, and he's asking the question sort
of rhetorically when he's using that language, in that he doesn't expect it to be answered,
I think what he really means is what does it do, because physics isn't in the business
of determining the identity of things, but rather in understanding how to place a framework
over what we can sense and intuit to test speculations about what it does, but not what
it is.
And necessarily that quest produces a bunch of new izzes, hopefully, but yet again we
run into the problem of we tend to cognize new things, new reference for language and
thought and experiment, like dark matter, or quasars.
We tend to categorize them according to, and in comparison with, quote, things we already
know about, unquote.
Thus you get the idea, for example, that the heart is a pump, right.
And yeah, it does the pumping thing, that's for sure.
But to confuse that with its identity, we're throwing away most of what's going on for
the sake of the tangible authority of it going boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, you know, right.
It's actually doing that.
You know, there's a goal of something like explicit objectivity, and mathematics and
physics have about them the stink of this goal.
Equations rarely rely on interpretation.
Their structure is fundamentally authoritative, in part because it's internally consistent.
But I'm reminded of Riemann, and whatever crazy intuition led him to suppose that the
inversion of the Euclidean axiom, parallel lines never meet, would give us a new vision
of the nature of geometry.
Another time space is up to, and we see pieces of that, right.
We at least for a little while now have had the conceptual idea that this is a solar system
in a galaxy, in a group of galaxies, in a particular region of time space, and the universe.
And we know that around here, planets are said to orbit the sun, and that something
at least vaguely approximating that is really going on.
Depending of course on what we mean by orbit, and who's asking, and a few other things.
So the whole idea of space as like the interval between worlds or stars is pretty damn young.
I'm not really sure how old it is.
And prior to that, I think we thought of the sky as at least resembling waters of some kind.
But maybe not the regular kind.
And that might have been smarter than the way we think of it now as an effectively blank
interval between condensed objects and space time.
I don't think that stuff's empty.
And I suspect it has properties and functions that we've so far been too unimaginative to
conceive of, or even speculate toward.
Somehow the theories have been promoted over the minds in which they arise.
And that seems a step too far for me.
Surely no theory will encompass the minds in which theories arise.
That would mean you had a perfect theory.
That would mean Gideleon in completeness was false.
The simple way to say something about Gidele was that effectively one of the incompleteness
theories, and he has two, says something like
no formal system of a complexity level sufficient to generate arithmetic
will be consistent if it is complete.
In other words, the consistency of the system requires incompleteness.
And some people have opined, one person that I know directly, Kevin Beru, have implied
that perhaps Gidele had an intuition about the problem of a system that doesn't need
a mind in which to become structured and form and arise.
Sometimes it seems like the physicists are kind of religious about certain rules in the
sense that
they almost see the rules as like self existent roots.
They see them in the functional position of a divine being.
Because of their seeming degree of truth, light travels 186,000 miles per second in
a vacuum or something like this.
Or the Planck equations, Schrodinger's equations, many other equations, relativity, fine structure
constant, lots of stuff.
And I wouldn't say their reverence is misguided, but we need a different kind of knowledge.
We need the kind of knowledge that helps us understand what the hell is going on because
it isn't just a bunch of particle interactions, hopes and prayers of certain physicalists
aside.
There's no way that's true.
There's something fundamental going on and physics and perhaps science itself are not
the kind of tool we need to discover it.
In fact, the hidebound physicalism of many aspects of modern science is misguided.
They have a love of detail but don't understand the context.
And human knowledge has this inclination to produce endless little branches of knowledge
about pieces and function and perhaps relationship between the pieces.
But it's very rudimentary and it takes forever to go a little ways unless you get lucky and
stumble on a fundamental insight.
The problem is that function doesn't tell us what electrons are or why there are electrons
