in the family of beings in time space, and it's very important not to think of them as
objects.
Anything that affects the complexity and connotation web of the root elements in our lexicon makes
us dumber by leaps and bounds, it results in a kind of lossy compression of identity
in consciousness and thought, where we get too much artifact and not enough vital ambiguity
in completeness.
It's easy to believe we can know the functions of an object, it's impossible to believe we
can know the nature of another being, except in personal and communal relation.
We like to think that minds have no effect on the structure of our math or our theories,
I think that's absurd.
I think minds that developed on another world would have math and a perspective, a fundamental
perspective on identity that differs from ours, and could be at once vastly less mechanical
and far more effective.
It turns out that in time space it's not what you know, it's who you know.
I suspect that it's very likely that we would discover that the nature of dimensionality
and intelligence in time space are intimately interwoven at the core, and that there are
ancient civilizations communicating regularly between each other in time space, and more
than likely they have some rather important array of goals that they're pursuing.
We either have to much more than mere observation.
One can imagine factions, because as humans we tend to break up into them with different
goals, but one can also imagine the opposite of factions, really coherent unity of goals.
I think whatever is going on in the big picture, it seems very likely to me that living worlds
are always touching, all of them.
I don't know whether the communication is instantaneous, but I have many models of situations
where the myriad intelligences in time space are instanced here as organisms and relationships
between them, so that you don't have to travel anywhere.
It's literally all right here.
The models don't come from me thinking about it, they come from direct experience, and I'm
not claiming that my experience is definitive or authoritative, but something is missing
from the idea of the universe as a bunch of functions and no beings.
It's beings that have that idea, without beings you don't get ideas like that, right?
Certainly that's a modest subset of the ideas that would enlighten us.
I love listening to the physicists talk, and many of them I think are actually quite heroic.
Goetel I think was heroic as well, but Brian Green is heroic.
I love Roger Penrose, I love to hear him speak.
He's a mind of incredible depth, and sincerity and passion.
So I'm certainly not against the physicists.
I'm against the physicists, no I'm not against anything.
I'm in favor of us having caution about us confusing the difference between the functions
we derive, the features we can distinguish in physics, and what is and what the universe
is and is doing and is being.
Because that latter thing, we need to understand the context.
If we don't understand, it's funny, we need actually a kind of impossible thing.
We need a system of knowledge to have a personal experience, and I could hear a million scientists
cringe there, but the scientists are having personal experiences of their own research,
so where's the problem?
Because we're not going to get the knowledge of identity and meaningful origin from science,
and I'm not going to claim we'll get it from religion either.
Both of these are ways of knowing.
But the questions are transcendental to our sciences, you see, and they must be thus,
and they will always be thus.
Nonetheless, I mean honestly the physicists are dangerous.
These days, the branches of science we call physics, and biology, and physics subsumes
all of machines, are the most dangerous things in the human arsenal
for weapon making.
All of our weapons are the result of physics and biology, and all of our machines are pretty
much weapons, whether we conceive of them thus or not.
Basically as a species, we need to graduate from, yeah, this is the old problem, isn't
it?
So for probably a thousand years, but particularly the last couple of hundred, our species has
invested something resembling its developmental potential into bizarre and deadly, swarming
sort of systems of ignorance and deprivation, and most of this is in service to building
machines.
And so it's as if we've taken the peculiar gift of our unique evolutionary endowments
and bled them off into technological development, having failed utterly and completely to even
begin the project, meaningfully, of anything resembling intelligent societies, benevolent,
peaceful altruistic societies, societies that at least had the capacity for some semblance
of ecological symbiosis with the life systems of Earth.
But instead, as a group, we're voraciously omnicidal, we're trying to kill everything
in new ways per second, and we're profligate with our technologies having pretty much zero
consideration for their effect on biology, biosphere, ourselves, our children, and thus
by affecting ourselves and our children, affecting our ancestors, and so on.
As to the degree we fail to achieve, the dreams that lived in the hearts of our ancestors,
and often these were dreams of communion, not dreams of gain, dreams of insight, not
knowledge, dreams of the fulfillment of the promise of our incarnation as human beings
on Earth in the times we are born, not machines, not computers, not missiles, not bombs, not
sonar that blows the insides of whales apart so that we can get oil from under the sea
or map terrain for our submarines, not that.
Somehow, the humans have to begin to passionately pursue the possibility of social and ecological
intelligence and relational intelligence so that we might have the opportunity to know
in relation what the sun, who the sun is, what the earth, who the earth is, who they
are being in the local time-space families, and in case it's not clear whatever they may
be, we're doing the opposite.
We're tearing the earth apart.
We're making it impossible for her to be who she is in time-space.
If there's a network of intelligent worlds and the earth is a part of it, we're fucking
up the local node catastrophically.
That behavior will not go unpunished, not because the universe is concerned with retribution,
but more in the same way our own immune system works, right?
The network of living worlds has something transcendental to but resembling an immune
system, and it will certainly separate any node that goes rogue and starts building mad
machines and killing up everything that it can possibly touch.
Yeah, unfortunately, us moderns are omnicidal and we're unaware.
There are no bodies of awareness.
The societies are fictions, mostly dead processes manned by humans.
So I would argue that we need to retrieve our developmental momentum and assets from
technology and deploy them in the direction of the great experiment that will produce
many unique intelligent societies, fundamentally benevolent, peaceful, altruistic, ecologically
sensitive, a whole new way for humans to be humans together that's older than anything
we could call a government.
But how to foment such a revolution?
Do let me know your ideas.
Thank you for joining me.
I look forward to learning together again soon.
