So yeah, he cites the actual Greek in the New Testament, from which the New Testament is derived
in English. And he points out all kinds of catastrophic mistranslations, which are endemic
to the Bible that we read. I mean, the idea that you could translate Hebrew into English
is pretty nearly insane if it's biblical Hebrew, or you know, Torah Hebrew. But again,
you have the same problem, right? There's no such thing as biblical Hebrew. Biblical Hebrew is a
derivation of biblical Greek. And the chances of you translating a language is sophisticated in
its connotative and technical features into English. I don't even know. It would be like trying to
translate Romanian geometry into basic arithmetic. It's just not going to ever happen.
And this is part of the problem that we face
with our historical documents in general, and anything that where we can't go to the original
source with, you know, arm in arm with a scholar of significant educational and linguistic depth,
right? And clearly, Ammon is one of a few such scholars that exist. He's not the only one.
But uh,
there's so much going on here that it's really hard to remain focused. All right, so
so they made him remove everything that that they thought might possibly indicate what they
call the recreational use of drugs by the Romans and the Athenians. And this is the birthplace
of the idea of democracy in so much as we moderns understand it in the West. Obviously, there were
experiments long before this, and there were things more like liquid democracy than formal
democracy. By the time you have to formalize a system, you've lost most of its essence and
origin completely, right? By the time you have to formalize relationships, you have a problem where
the concept of the individual has achieved an unjustified primacy. You follow me? It should
never be this ultimate. This idea of individual should never be this ultimate. So um,
I'm going to carefully skirt the, oh god, what a pun. I'm going to skirt the topics
that are related to what I have said, which is the ceremonial use of substances produced
by the bodies of prepubescent humans. I'm going to skirt that topic, but I'm going to circle it
and highlight it just so that it remains in the orbit of what we are here trying to understand.
Medea became a master of the uses, both of snake venom and the mixtures, the careful mixture,
like as if, as if, as if each venom. So the substances that a human body produces can be
understood as elixirs, right? The sweat, the tears, the saliva, the, oh my god, dare I even say these
things? I, no, I'm not going to say it. Sexual exudations and a couple of other things that
I'm going to leave out. If you're really imaginative, you'll figure out what I'm pointing at. Most of
you won't, probably for everyone's best interest that you don't. And these topics are so forbidden,
right? They're, they're so forbidden that you will be killed for considering them in many cases,
but certainly you will be, you know, obliterated for publicly discussing them.
And so I'm taking a lot of risks here, even though I'm being relatively circumspect.
This guy looks like he's aware of principles related to
interior martial arts. He's using hand gestures that are evocative of the manipulation of chi,
which is a related topic here, okay? But things are going to get really weird in a moment.
So Amon decided, I'm going to find out everything that those, those Greeks wouldn't have been doing.
And he did. I mean, he's, you know, and he's been accused of strange
things that I think people have him entirely backwards. If they think he's interested,
for example, in summoning demons or opening portals. I mean, the problem with Amon
is that if you're walking around on earth with the knowledge that he has,
you might, you are a portal. You don't have to go opening them. You are one.
And, and this is a problem for him that I think he'll hopefully artfully
negotiate, right? Mitigate or work with. All right. So remember, this is a, this is a topic that
other things down here. This is a topic that has fascinated me and I've had some brand new insights
today based on what Amon was talking about that are staggering to me and wildly unexpected
because I felt like I mostly knew what was going on because I had been shown
stories, but the stories omitted certain things. And Amon's
discussion has illuminated something fundamental. Okay, I'm going to take a couple of these quills
because these quills are seriously great. So I want, I want this one.
This one.
So, long ago,
an on-ordinary being offered me a wish and had I been intelligent,
I would have perhaps wished differently. And I now for the first time understand something about
why that being seemed very surprised by what I had selected.
But the fundamental wish was help me understand how my species got broken and if there's any
medicine for that. And what it did was it dripped insight into the eye of my mind
very delicately so it would not destroy me. And so that I would understand the origins
of what I refer to as representational cognition in our species
and the histories and mysteries of how that very problematical feature of we moderns originated.
But I also asked specifically, talk to me about the tree incident in Genesis
because this seems to be at least for some people or in some way a crucial origin story
where the problems apparently get started. And I'm going to spoil the charade here because,
okay, so what I was first shown was that the serpent, quote unquote, was an angel
in a sense and it was the angel of the knowledge of dividing things, one from another,
the knowledge of distinguishing. And so it made divisions in the minds
of first of Eve and then of Adam by giving them the fruit of the tree of knowledge.
And certainly,
this can be thought of in a variety of ways. I've had many perspectives on what that
concept of the fruit might refer to. And it's much better to have three to five good
perspectives than it is to have one. If you have one, it will blind you. And some of us,
some people will think, well, there's a difference between things that are actually
true and those that aren't. Yes, there are, but insight is not always forged from the facts.
Often it's forged from the dreaming, which is the intelligent,
what, reambiguation of the facts. The intelligent reamb, getting the facts
is useful. The intelligently reambiguating them is profound. And this is what happens
when we dream. This is part of what happens when we use certain substances, pharmacoya.
And what I've seen today for the first time is, okay, let me go back to Medea.
So, Ammon was saying that Medea became a master of the, not just the application
of substances derived from vipers and snakes. Oh my God. I can't believe I can see so many
problems in me sharing this recording. I can't, I'm going to be surprised if the recording even
survives. Am I still actually recording? Yes, apparently I am. Okay. Wow. So,
Medea became
supra humanly adept, not merely at the acquisition of venoms from snakes and possibly other creatures
and possibly
botanical and perhaps cathonic substances as well, the mixing of them.
This, in a sense, he's saying she is, at least in some historical lines or traditions,
the first pharmacologist, the one who mixes toxins and also understands them probably in a kind of
a spiritual way that results in the capacity to produce antidotes, which are not merely curatives.
They can rebalance
and possibly even resurrect. So, what is being implied here by Ammon,
and I don't think he's going to agree with me about this if he even becomes aware of my theory,
is that the viper at the tree in Genesis, the serpent, which in my, in the stories I was shown,
is essentially an angel. It's like the first angel. It's the angel that divides.
It's the angel with the gift of cutting, essentially cutting in the mind. So, it's
the angel that allows for the possibility of distinguishing and thus the beginning of the
concept of naming and thus the beginning of concepts themselves and the tree of nomenclature,
reference, representation, tokenization and consciousness, commodities, all these things.
You can see, in a sense, it could be understood as the origin of evil,
because all of these departures from unity and communion are necessary for the idea of knowledge,
right? And knowledge is so often, if not always, the death of participation. It's the knife that the
waking awareness brings to the bubbles of dreaming, collapsing them into awakening,
where identity is declarative rather than connotative or relational. It is declared rather
than suggested, which is what happens in moonlight. Sunlight is declarative, moonlight is suggestive,
invocative, invitational, connotational, associational, more like the imagination
than the denotation or the dictionary. And so, the implication here is that the serpent, both
the amonic, I'm going to call it the amonic implication for me, is that the serpent gave
Eve the toxin that brought her to the verge of death, to the liminal space between worlds,
the hypnagogic, pompic space. The serpent injected her with this venom and gave her the
knowledge of the venom and how to use it and also how to comprise the antidote.
And then she died and was resurrected and thus had knowledge, because the whole idea of knowledge
is equated with death in the Hebrew. The tree, the sephiroth in the center of it that isn't
numbered is doth, which is knowledge. And this doth and death are closely related. So the concept
here is that Eve was brought to the verge of death, essentially killed by the serpent, resurrected,
given the knowledge of the antidotes. She communicated this knowledge to the males, to Adam,
by producing the same series of events in his body and consciousness. They both were awakened
to the reality of death, which before had been perhaps impossible for them. And now that they
were no longer immortal in the sense of a rising moment to moment from the communal essence of
being, now they have become subject to mortality and physical death. And this is the
implication of the Ammonic knowledge that Ammon himself seems very resistant to. He claims that
this is the Canaanite path that he associates with all kinds of apparent ethical
deviation. I'm going to go check out this music, but we're going to come back to this. And the place
we'll come back to is Medea and how we get to the idea of Medusae from there. All right, so
I walked into the concourse between the museums here in San Francisco. There's a bunch of people
with spacesuits on the stage of the amphitheater, and they're playing a jazz version of Hallelujah
while I'm making this recording, which I think is fairly ridiculously
synchronistic and trippy and bizarre. All right, so Medea became one of the first
masters of the formulation and applications of venoms from serpents.
We must imagine particularly vipers, but probably also
cobras, and there are a variety of, okay,
ophi, let's see, what was he talking about?
I cannot recall the genus name that refers to the serpents, but it's OPH, right? It's like
ophiologists study serpents. So he talks about, in the book of Revelation, a reference,
it's insane people, unfortunately. He talks about
people referred to as essentially devotees of both this woman who
distributes elixirs that are derived both from serpents and her sexual exudations.
The ophians, ophidians, something like this. I can't quite find the word. In any case, Medea ends up in
what later becomes Sicily. I can't remember the other s name it had previously, which turns out to be
the birthplace of my direct paternal ancestors. Syracuse, I think, is what he called it.
And there's a man who's been bitten by a marsh viper, and she reaches, and this is in the original
sources, right? This is in the ancient Greek, probably in Nonos or Galen or something. She reaches
beneath her undergarments, produces a substance from her vagina with which she resurrects the sky.
And, you know, moderns, you poor, benighted folks, you can think whatever you feel comfortable about
thinking. You can think people are just making this stuff up. This is wildly improbable. Of course,
we know what's actually true about Jesus and pharmacology and molecular chemistry and all
of these things. Yeah, we know the mechanics to some degree. We know nothing of that plus.
And very, very little, we don't. We stopped mixing snake venom, you know, 8,000 years ago,
but there were people all over the world who knew that what could kill you could heal you,
and that particularly the energies and the capacities of the human spirit when driven into
either ecstatic modes. And when I say this word mode, I want you to think of both the
frequency and an array of shapes, a progressing array of shapes like you might see on a drum head
with sand or another substance on it when frequencies are being played on speakers
underneath the drum head so that geometric figures arise in the sand on the surface of the drum
head. This is what I'm, the human soul is capable of producing an array of iterative transformations,
right, that can be recursively self-amplifying and can produce staggering forms of healing.
In someone who is sick or poisoned. And what these ancients were often concerned with
was something, you know, when you hear, no one would think when they hear the psalm,
yea, though I walk through the shadow, you know, through I walk, yea, though I walk through the
valley of the shadow of death, I shall fear no evil. And they think this means you will not
fear evil because the holy ones are with you. But what it actually means is I will not fear dying
because the people of the antidote are with me. No one will think this. And yet the actual texts
almost certainly refer to something like this rather than what we are trained to think.
Now I have seen and was shown histories that are much more shocking and staggering than anything
Ammon has even hinted at. I don't speak of them to humans ever, not even in private.
I was shown
modes of relation that led to abilities that are wildly non-ordinary and unexpectedly profound.
I don't practice these things. I am simply aware that we are very confused about what it means to be
human. And actually we are extremely confused about what knowledge is because it has almost
nothing to do with the capacity to form mechanical tools. Actual knowledge is insight. And insight
means knowing the span from origin to the present, intimately and amnoetically recalling it
as if you are doing a sort of spiritual and or genetic
and amnoetic, right? Unforgetting archaeology within the depths of our bodies and being
and relationships. This is what real knowledge is. It's not mechanical knowledge. It's not physics.
It's not math. It's not mere geometry. Though geometry is strangely profoundly
related to all of these topics.
To concentrate on surviving the street crossing there.
So somehow today, for the first time, I've become capable of imagining
a gloss on the tree story that had never occurred to me before. That the serpent
took Eve to the brink of death or actually into death, right? And then gave her the antidotes,
revived her, resurrected her, and then she in turn led Adam through the same initiatory
process. I don't know, I may never know what Ammon actually thinks because I suspect that
if he's intelligent, like me, he won't share with, he won't say anything about this
to anyone ever. Or he might say something about it in private. I don't know what he
actually thinks or believes. One of the things he said when Danny Jones asked him if he was religious at all,
because he often apparently says the phrase, Hail Satan. And Danny asked him,
you know, why do you do that? Are you Satanist? He says, no, I don't like those people.
And Danny says, so why are you doing that? Who's Satan? And he says, he talks about Satan as
the Morning Star, the Lightbringer, the Enlightener, who was lied about because Zeus was a liar and so
projected, if I understand, this is very spooky and sketchy, but Zeus projected his own failings
and perhaps flailings onto Lucifer. And these are matters I inquired into during my own experience.
And I'm happy to communicate about privately, but I don't want to make clumsy abstractions about,
clumsy abstract generalizations. In effect, that is a form of sin. It's
sin by generalization and sin by abstraction.
In order to speak meaningfully about such matters, we must inquire together. We must begin with the
spirit of inquiry, not the spirit of dissertation or locution, has to start with inquiry together.
Then we have a chance to speak intelligently and learn intelligently together. So I will resist
the urge to speak about that matter abstractly at the moment. And I want to be clear that
for those of you who may have a desire to actually drink the waters
