together, that's a wedding that doesn't happen in the invitation.
That's something that happens one on one. If we both agree that we want to cleanse our eyes
of the anciently complicated obstructions that language, concept, religion, policy, expectation,
tradition have imposed on us so unjustly, so terrifyingly. And yet some of the jungles,
you know, there are portions of the jungles of insight that are at least as terrifying to our
common expectation of meaning, identity, relationship, origin. They have nothing to,
they don't care a whit about what we prefer to believe or what we think is sane,
what we think is clean. There's no, you know, it's like dumping a bucket of water on the sun's surface,
if you could transport one there somehow. There's no respect for that.
There, it cannot be preserved there.
Huh. Okay, I'll try that.
There's a little library here on my street where a woman puts her books out and I saw her yesterday,
she came home and it's the first time I've seen who it is that's putting the books in here.
And I said, you know, you have some very interesting books and she looked at me
like I was an insane person, like I was a dangerous person, like I was someone she would
prefer to have no Congress whatsoever with. And it was really weird. She definitely
both refused the compliment. I feel like, yeah, you can keep that compliment to yourself, buddy.
I don't care. And I don't want to know you. And your mother was a conigate and your father
smelled of elderberries, et cetera, et cetera. But yeah, I've just found a book called the Child
Garden, which has extraordinary praise written all over it by Geoff Reiman. So maybe I'll read
some science fiction again instead of living it. But yeah, if you think what I present in my
recordings is deep, you should get a taste of what you're actually carrying, where you come from,
where we come from, where our minds, by what parents, our minds and souls were forged,
and for what purposes. And when we breach or broach the topics that I've been playing with
today, which were masterfully introduced by Amon Hillman, we're at least closing in on the vicinity
of stuff that really matters. We're closing in on the outskirts of the gardens of infinity
that are the origins of not just the lights in the sky, but the sky itself, and that from which
it emerges as a reflective embodiment of this thing, the living waters,
which Amon, a phrase that Amon actually mentions in relationship to
what he calls the third ventricle, which is a capacious space inside the brain
where a liquid circulates, an elixir. And what he talks about is women learning how to produce
drugs in their own bodies, so that their bodies became a pharmacopia. He says that the sources speak
of Medea and other women, Medusa, she calls giants not meaning huge, in size meaning huge,
in knowledge, gigantus. It's lovely to hear the reverence and terror with which he sometimes
pronounces Greek words. He claims that small serpents were treated with oils and stored
in the vaginal cavities of these women. I know how the moderns are just going to
like squinch up their faces and go like, okay, this dude's nuts, or maybe Darren's nuts.
But neither of those things are true. What's actually true is we moderns are completely broken
because we have
absolutely wrong ideas inculcated by nonsensical absurdities.
About matters related to medicine, origin, spirit,
Christ, the meanings of these ideas, all of these things are completely delusional.
We have this weirdly puritanical opposition to anything that might actually resemble understanding.
And if we are to have understanding, we must divest ourselves of the obstacles between us and that.
And some of that divestment is profoundly uncomfortable and conceptually unimaginable
to we who have grown up in a world divorced from these original stories.
So, as usual, I'm grateful for this time we've had together. I have arrived home.
I'm going to wash some feather quills that I retrieved and listen to more Ammon
and probably regret that I didn't speak further and longer on this topic,
which is so fascinating to me because for the first time I've started to see what
the possible relationship is between the snake in the tree in the garden and insight,
and also possibly a mystery in the black foot lore where the moon falls in love
with something that is referred to in the English translation
as a many-legged snake that lives in a hollow log.
Oh, God, this is so... I'm not even going to start to elucidate my concerns and thoughts about that
matter, which has been a primordial question that I and Ryan Firstiver have been chasing together
for many joyful years now. Thank you for joining me. I wish you all blessings, a beautiful path in
your life and day and moment. I wish you the wonders of actual insight. May the
may the plank in your eye be removed and may you resist
the compulsions of judgment so that you may taste the nectar.
Of liberation and insight. Bye-bye for now. Thank you for joining me.
