Hello, everybody. Welcome.
I'm going to just straight up. I don't usually go in for this kind of thing.
But I'm going to straight up.
I'm going to warn you that the topics I'm about to explore here
are so profoundly controversial, so provocative,
that if you're not up for some serious provocation,
feel free to turn aside.
And I know my audience well enough to know that that will have no effect on nearly all of you.
But for those people who haven't listened to me before,
and I'm also going to say that I'm going to be holding back.
In fact, that's normally what I do, because if I were to talk openly about what I have seen
and come to know as a human being,
yeah, people would not probably, it would not be allowed for one thing. I would be shut down
very quickly. And, you know, other collectives or whatever might actually hunt me down.
I don't talk about what I've seen and what I've known, what I've come to know.
I talk about the wrapping paper around the surface of that stuff that I can get away with
speaking about in public. Even in private, if there's even such a thing anymore,
I would be extremely hesitant to delve directly into the incredibly shocking implications
of what I've been shown by non-human intelligences that are not demonic. I'm pretty damn sure.
What I've seen and what I've experienced and what I've come to understand in my own
walk as a human being, and as not merely human being.
So, over the past couple weeks, I've been listening to Amon Hillman.
And, you know, I would argue that Amon himself doesn't understand what he has clearly discovered
in ancient texts about religion, magic, and knowledge.
I was listening to him today talk on a podcast, I think it's number 63, interesting number,
of The Sacred Speaks. And, he's talking about before the stories of Odysseus and Achilles
and so forth, there was a woman named Medea, who is essentially the origin of magic.
And, the origin of magic has to do with a mixture of basically, okay, this is going to go way out
there, people, but get ready for this. So, the idea of Christos is a medicine that is put in
people's eyes. It's not Jesus, and whatever Jesus might have been up to, it's probably
nothing like what we are trained to think, if Jesus actually existed.
And, in fact, most people will literally go out of their minds and say,
if they even try to understand some of the things that Amon
is saying exist in the primary sources, what does he mean by this? He said, you know,
I had a great advisor in my early education, this guy has a PhD in classicism,
he reads Greek like pretty much no one on earth can. There might be a few people that are close
to his skill level, from what I understand. I'm going to wait till this monstrosity ceases its
overhead, fundamental disturbance of all beings.
You know, in antiquity, if something like a helicopter went over and just disturbed everything,
people would think that was a God, because how could you have such universal effect? You'd have
to be a mountain or, you know, thunder or something like, there's no way, how could you project such
incredibly generalized and universal effect from on high, if you weren't a God.
And this is part of why I say that the humans essentially invent demons,
and they think these are conveniences or powerful.
Yeah, here it comes again, maybe, utterly disturbing.
They don't understand that the dog is disturbed by the helicopter, but it is.
Their dogs just stopped moving when the helicopter flew over.
And it's the same principle I was trying to explain, and I'll bet now that it's, yep,
now that it's gone, the dog is totally fine. And the humans were confused, they couldn't
figure out what was frightening the dog, even though something in the sky was dominating
everything around it universally. And the dog naturally felt unsafe to move. It would not move,
they tried to drag it, it wouldn't move. And let me be really clear, what I'm talking about right
now, and much of what I talk about, is forbidden knowledge. You're not supposed to be able to
know these things. And this is part of what Amon Hillman's game is, except that Amon himself
doesn't actually understand, I think. If he does, he gives little evidence of it,
because he presents his perspective as opposed to what he has learned about the ancients,
the topics of magic, medicine, visionary experience, the non-ordinary, all of these things.
This man has seen a universe that moderns know nothing of, and it has blown his mind.
You know, what he actually said was, I thought, kind of hilarious. He wrote a dissertation
on what was going on in Roman Athens. And, oh my god, the poor. Every naive human is subject
at some point to this kind of catastrophe. I'm going to get back to the whole thing I was talking
about with Medea. Yeah, this is going to go way, way into outer space. So,
he wrote a dissertation, and his advisor said, he wants you to remove all references
to anything that we could imagine to meet recreational drug use by the ancients,
which was probably, you know, I don't know, wild guess here, 70% of the material,
except that they didn't have the idea of recreation related to drugs at all. It was
it was pharmacopia, right, was the use of poisons. You need to understand this, this pharma,
it doesn't mean medicine in the way we imagine. It means the titration of poisons.
And there are two primary sources of poison, maybe three, if the human body is the third.
The first is plants. The second is animals. The third is humans, and the fourth is
just take those first three and put a make a concentric rings around them, and then take that
and put a plus symbol next to it. It's that plus. It's anything that's beyond those first three.
And the whole history of medicine is the titration of poisons, right, meaning the dosage,
and not just the curing, not the idea of curing, but actually of rebalancing,
right, of rebalancing the body. So what the ancients were doing in many cases is,
you know, something incredible to our minds. They are going to the edge of death while embodied.
They die, and then they are resurrected from this state by the administration of an antidote.
Do these people actually not even know that I exist? It's so funny.
Some moderns, particularly younger people, they have no concept of personal space.
They'll walk right within, you know, like a half an inch of my body as if I'm not even there.
And not just when they're looking at their phones, but I want to be really clear about something.
Anyone who is walking around in the world with a phone in their hand is disoriented.
And if they're looking at that phone, they are completely disoriented. They might as well be
unconscious. Okay, no, it's not possible to pay attention to their environment or their body
or anything when they're looking at that phone. That thing is an energetic and attentional black hole.
And people say, well, I've seen you, you know, walking. Yes, how do you think I figured it out?
I had to first resist what they did for many years and then eventually give in and try it myself.
It's terrifyingly dissociative. You might as well just take like a shot of ketamine right to the brain.
It's totally dissociative, except it's worse because at least with the ketamine, you might have
something like a dream or a vision, but with the phone, you just have game empty.
It's like a cartoon where your brain just starts producing square waves like a synthesizer with
a bad LFO or something. Yeah, a bad oscillator is just nothing in there. The whole brain activity
goes to poop, zip-o, this is nothing. Or it goes to like the opposite of anything resembling
attentional or relational coherence. In any case, all right, so the thing with Ammon is that he,
he, okay, I'll put this, people have the wrong idea about him. They think he's,
they think he's demonic, right? And weird things happen all around him very regularly,
which that is not surprising at all. Also, if you look at the guy, he's basically like a walking
psychedelic. So that's a third problem, right, is that ordinary people are going to freak out
in his presence for nine different kinds of reasons that he himself probably can't even
understand. He probably thinks there's some. I mean, I think he has an idea about it.
I don't know what those ideas are. Perhaps I may reach out to this guy and see.
Okay, what the hell is going on here?
The geese are gathered. There's a bunch of feathers on the ground. Have they pulled them out themselves?
This is so weird.
That's a huge lot of feathers, but there's no blood on them, which implies that
the geese pulled the feathers themselves in their preening behavior, which they're doing very
attentively at the moment.
If those feathers had been pulled by a predator, there'd be blood on them.
What is that Greek word for hymen? That's the Greek word for blood hymen,
according to what I heard from Ammon.
Yeah, these quills would make excellent pens for ink.
So I'm sure Ammon doesn't really know why people get really freaked out by him,
although if you look at him, he's thoroughly tattooed with Greek
phrases and words. I'd love to know what the Greek word for my body has become a book is,
or my body is a papyri. This would be great to know about.
Okay, so things are going to get much weirder here just to be clear.
What he's talking about are the intentional use of extremely complex pharmacological
substances. Often aphrodisiacal,
substances introduced during rites of orgiastic
flagrancy, often into the rectum or the eyes or the mouth, almost invariably by women or
a male officiant who are not merely priests.
And many of the substances involved came from the bodies of children.
We've heard nonsense, probably hopefully nonsense, but not necessarily about this
in our modern situation with extremely wealthy people or powerful people.
There's myths, I think, I hope, about some substance called adenochrome or something, adrenochrome.
But I haven't heard Ammon say anything about the sacrificing of children. Rather, he speaks about
getting substances, initiates, taking substances from the bodies of
prepubescent boys and girls, mixing these substances with the venoms from snakes
and substances that are botanical, and also possibly substances that are cathonic
or from the earth. In other words, very specific soils or dusts.
I haven't heard him mention that specifically, but from my own knowledge I would be shocked if
there's none of that going on. And then the ceremonial introduction of these substances
into the eyes, noses, mouths, vaginas, rectums of people who either are undergoing
a spiritual transformation or are being healed. He talks of, in what I was hearing him talk about
today, he was speaking about Medea and how she became sort of the origin of the idea of magic.
And he also talks about, in the Bible, a segment where I suspect he's talking about the horror
of Babylon, quote unquote, and that's the English. I'm sure the Greek is vastly different.
That's funny. People are trying to balance a rock on a rock. If only they could balance their mind
on their mind, things would go much better. So wildly unlikely. All right, so Medea became,
and also almost certainly Cleopatra, they became adepts with the use of various toxins,
which they kept in their hair often. This is where you get the idea of a Medusa,
a woman whose hair looks like snakes, right? What that means is she has dreads, and the dreads are
thick with substances that can either be, you could apply moisture to them and get them on your
fingertips and then fling them into the eyes of a person in front of you, similarly to what a cobra
does, right? Or you could twist a spine or an arrow, some sort of projectile into the dread
with a substance on it that would cause the concentrated toxins in the hair to
both become liquefied and to then be absorbed onto the surface of the projectile. You could
then shoot that into someone and it would paralyze them. A mirror basically keeps the gaze
of something from touching you, and this is the concept I think, though I haven't read the original
Greek, which you know would certainly be useful and helpful. A mirror would keep the gaze of
someone from touching you, and it's the idea that it's the gaze of the Medusa that paralyzes.
Not entirely impossible, but I'm going to wildly guess here that Amma would tell us
there's no evidence of that in the primary sources, and what his first counselor told him,
I'm circling back now, was you need to keep three things in mind as you pursue your academic
passions. The first thing is primary sources. The second thing is primary sources.
You can probably imagine what the third thing is. It's primary sources. What his advisor is saying
is give no credence to anything that has to do with someone discussing their opinions or perspectives
as a classicist, as a Greek scholar. You can only rely on primary sources. You must always rely
on the first texts and never mind what other people think, say, because what you'll find is that
very quickly beyond the primary sources, political and religious and military and
what philosophical orientations rapidly warp the originals, which is why we are catastrophically
confused according to Ammon about who Jesus was and what he was actually up to.
I'm not going to get much into that today. You can check out Ammon yourself if you want
his views on that, but let me just say this. It has nothing to do with what we are thinking.
Jesus was, in Ammon's view, a, what is the right word, a lasia? I can't remember,
lasie, lasia, lasia. Essentially, a trafficker in young children. If you can imagine anything
more provocative than that. And as Ammon will tell you, the sources that we have for the Torah
are not in Hebrew or Aramaic. They are in Greek. We don't have sources for written,
the written Torah is translated from ancient Greek into Hebrew, which is insanely ridiculous
to imagine. I had heard this elsewhere. I had heard this from a scholar,
God. I was eventually able to find the source. I heard this from a scholar who was writing on
Korah, a brilliant author actually, who was doing something very, very dangerous on Korah,
for which he eventually got banned because he was masquerading as a woman
and had written some astonishing sort of memoirs of things that had happened to him
as a her, which of course didn't actually happen in the way that he
so artfully wrote at all. But one of the things he was writing about was a day when he was studying
the history of the actual origin of the Torah and why there were, why it was that
the original sources were all in Greek. I mean, can you imagine how provocative that is?
And I'm sure there are people who will want to yell at me and go like, oh, you're an idiot.
Of course, they were in Hebrew or Aramaic. But I challenged them to produce the dated
material that shows that the Hebrew or Aramaic predates the Greek from which the Torah was
certainly translated into Hebrew, which is, again, staggeringly unexpected.
But this is the kind of thing we will consistently discover when we look into
not just history as a record of what happened, history is the mysterious origin of our present
circumstances. History as that first tone that's being echoed cyclically, recursively in a spiral
that rhymes with its previous arcs. History is that. So basically, his advisors told him,
you have to take out everything that we would understand is related to recreational drug use
among the Romans. And he said, why would I do that? And they said, because it's obvious that
the Romans would not neither do that nor put up with it. And he thought to himself two things,
I think. The first one is, how the fuck would you know that? What, you just have some moralistic
predictor of what you think the Romans would or would not have done? But the second thing he thought,
which I think is hilarious, was, okay, I'm going to take all this stuff out so that I can at least
publish my dissertation. But for the rest of my life, I'll find all the things that the Romans
wouldn't do. My job from now on is I will be the human who knows all the things that you think the
Romans wouldn't do, wouldn't allow. And he cites, knownness, primarily. Galen,
Escalus, not sure if I'm pronouncing that right. Some of these things are hard to pronounce,
but knownness and Galen aren't. And a big shout out to my friend who's actually named Galen.
Here. Because he's almost like the, no one would ever believe it, but he's almost like the rebirth
of one of the Greek scholars in the modern times. And wow, what a problem that is for him.
And you know, those who love him, and I'm one of those people.
