Hey everybody.
It's funny how I often begin making a video and I'm honestly just out really trying to
get some exercise. Be out of the box. But before making a video, I often have a, at
least a pro forma agenda. I have some things I want to talk about. And I'm
experiencing a conflict because beginning something important, sensitivity to what's
actually going on might be the most important thing. And so if I begin with an agenda and
I follow it, I might miss another opportunity near at hand. I might even discover unexpectedly
that the agenda was a ladder. I thought it wasn't good enough. It was supposed to get
me near a terrain in a fuzzy way that I could then traverse intelligently with awareness
sensitivity. But if I just follow the ladder, if I don't get off the ladder at the top of my
agenda, meaning if I don't get off the ladder once it's carried me to the landscape and enter
the landscape heartfully, reverently, humbly, then I'm likely to become pretty pointy. I'm going
to have some point that I want to deliver. And I'm not going to be in the moment. I'm not going to be
with the essence of what I truly hope to find or become able to say. And right now, as I'm speaking,
it's I'm on the I'm on the balancing beam between what's going on right here right now and my agenda.
Many of us don't have the luxury that I am currently enjoying. And that number drops to nearly none
once we start moving our mouths. And usually, before our mouths begin to move, our minds are
complexly anatomizing, right, turning into little organs and connecting and bringing what we will
say into potential. And not it seems that a relatively small number of us, if us is everyone, all
the humans have the luxury of even ever becoming aware of what I'm speaking with you about now.
They don't ever escape the gravity of the constant cycling of thought.
And once they begin speaking, particularly if they're speaking about
something important or deeply felt, an ironic thing occurs, which is
the boat begins to ride the pilot. Rather than carrying the pilot to new opportunity and awareness
and insight, something resembling understanding, creativity, the pilot becomes the slave of his boat.
And had I merely been following my agenda and not trying still to walk on that borderline
to step into the between consciously, reverently of the before of my thoughts and intentions and
agenda and speech, just before that somewhere to walk, to try, to assay, to attempt,
there was a little moment there where I started to tip over into knowledge.
And I'm really struggling in case it isn't obvious, this isn't a balanced walk.
It would be far easier to balance if I stopped moving my mouth.
And in fact, the moment I do that, my body feels very different.
I'm going to attempt the opposite of irony,
which means rather than having my agenda double down on itself and dominate me and the conversation.
I'm going to attempt to do something really daring.
I'm going to attempt to stay in that between even while I have an agenda
and let both aspects of my consciousness play together. Allow that one, those aspects that
are ordinarily silenced by the overarching machinations of the waking mind and the waking
world and traffic and noise and responsibility and role.
I'm going to be willing to struggle
and to lose my balance toward being too didactic and to fall over a little bit into dreaming and
we'll let these two dance. Because if I didn't, I'd depart myself in a manner of speaking.
And that boat's real heavy when it's directing the pilot from atop her back, this back, their back.
And, you know, I think I use that weight ordinarily, right? I feel that burden,
I feel that tension, and I use it to energize my erasions, yeah? I get some play out of being
ridden by my boat. But something's missing when that's the order of the day.
It's like the crust without the pie or something, right? The crust is really structured.
And we all, probably those of us who like crust of any kind, it's structurally, it's crunchy,
right? It's flaky, it's got all these ways of interacting with our minds and our
mouths and our stomachs. The pie is just really messy. It doesn't, you can cut, it seems like you
should be able to cut the crust and then the pie, you know, just the slice, just because that's not
what happens. And I'm not saying that the preverbal senses and embodied living animal of me is all
messy. It's not. Though we might remark on how shocking the transition is from the outside of
our bodies to the inside. The staggering difference, the crust of our skin hides organs like anciently
evolved animals that learned how to cooperate in a union otherwise unimaginable.
I think inside us could make a child's drawing of it.
There's a family of animals and they're all different and they keep each other alive together.
And you know, I don't think they discriminate much. I doubt they have a lot of biases and prejudices.
But I don't doubt something perhaps a bit more shocking, which is that
they are beings.
There are many beings inside me.
And as beings, they have some predecessor to or metalog of minds.
They might even have unique character in a way that we can recognize in animals.
Most easily those we are familiar with, but turns out that character extends to all of life,
every living thing.
And contrary to popular opinion and ideation and the peculiar admonitions of our categories
and the way we use language, which is a crazy making way.
All of the animals are one thing all the time, first and foremost.
Their capacity for individuation derives from communion.
That's what makes each one so special in the way we might say in English.
And it sounds illogical to say unity equals diversity.
Unless you start thinking carefully about the very questions that are floating on the cesspool of
modern popular and political commentary.
But I'm going to steer back from that edge for a moment.
Because over there the terrain is extremely pointy and everybody's being ridden by a boat.
And the bigger the boat they picked, the louder you hear them yell.
When I say all beings acquire their diversity from unity,
I'm not demanding
anything religious or necessarily even properly metaphysical in the senses we ordinarily
conceive of this in.
The actual nature of nature
is something we have learned and been trained to see that only the superficial
part of and only the parts that correspond to the categories we were trained to
cut things into with the knife of the intellect and describe and name.
And those knives, the way they cut, the layers where they make cuts.
Those knife-like cognitive habits and capacities.
They are a very dangerous inheritance.
For while claiming to grant us new kinds and degrees of liberty,
that potential is extremely difficult to achieve
because these knives are dangerous and the humans have forgotten how dangerous they are.
And they trust the cuts they make with their knives.
Knives they were given by parents and peers and culture and language and idiom
and association and connotation,
sentence structure, semantics, syntax, all these unique features of the strange disease our people
have called language.
The humans have long, modern humans, many of them, have long believed that animals don't have minds.
If you could imagine an island of men who know there are women but have never,
none, not one of them have seen them, which would be weird since between you and me,
men come from women. But since we're just being hypothetical, it's an island of men that have
never seen women, asking those men about women is essentially, well it's kind of a big part of
it. Asking those men about women, it would be like asking ordinary people about animals,
of course they'll admit that their pets have minds. Most of them, that's not too far a stretch.
But do they think the sparrows have minds? Do they think the butterflies have minds?
Do they think the organs in their bodies have minds? Would they even be capable of considering
such a thing? Because if they were to do so, it would change what they thought about every other
thing. And the reason is that what has minds is the kind of question that has profound entailments
on how you are in the world. If everything has minds, it's a very different world from
only those broken monkeys who make bizarre face noises and have manufactured shoes have minds.
Broken monkeys.
I stole that phrase from a poet, Jeff Conan, in case Jeff by some bizarre quirk of fate happens to
see this video. But I always loved when he made a little book called Broken Monkeys and it was a
single poem and it was really good and beautiful. So what I mean is
we might even be wrong with a whole have minds thing. We suppose, for example,
that minds are local and produce all their own groceries.
It's a complex question and we don't get to do experiments on humans.
Get to? That was weird language. We shouldn't want to do experiments on humans and yet
our culture turns out to be this experimental
sort of
this bubbling soup of psychosocial experiments.
And
so we can't tell whether
and what sort of mind-like phenomenon in a human that was never enculturated by other humans
would be, though we've encountered a few, you know, wild children and such. We don't know,
I think we don't know their stories very well. They're not necessarily reliable
examples, but it looks like
we transmit something not that might be usefully imagined,
even if this isn't its entire identity, we transmit something like a disease to our children
and it's the disease of making a mind crust.
And it takes a while to set in and that's why children's minds are fluid and
dreamy and playful and messy in general, though every child is unique and some child,
some children, you know, are less creative and playful than others. They might be very emotional
or right, but most children, no, I'm not going to do that. This is me trying to stay on the
balancing beam. Most children events these qualities because the crust mind hasn't formed yet
and usually what happens to most adult humans as they proceed through the phases of life
is that the crust mind crystallizes more and more of their potential to
return
to something ecstatically beautiful,
undifferentiated, pre-verbal awareness.
And it's a great tragedy how few of us will have the opportunity to experience this,
but we can learn if we so desire, particularly if we're passionate about it.
And it doesn't solve the problem of the crust mind for me.
You can see I'm still kind of pointy, right? I'm making points and such. I'm coherent.
I'm not just singing rhapsodic poetry at you yet,
but just to go back to that point for a moment where
I talked about humans and thinking about animals and minds and many humans would believe that
animals have minds, but they probably wouldn't like the idea that plants have something,
you know, either the precursor or an analogue or a metalogue. I know for certain that insects
have something analogous to personality, so that I'm sorry, it just implies
it implies mind-likeness for me. And one of the things that I was getting at back then,
there's a couple that are important to me, I'll try and stay with the good one,
is that we don't know what it would be like to be stranded in a field with no other minds.
Since we'd already developed one, we would probably continue mind-like behavior for a time,
but it's not clear to what degree our minds are local and to what degree distributed.
And it's very, it's fundamentally important, pun intended, to begin to understand
or at least very deeply question the idea that I possess my mind or that animals have
minds or things have minds, like a possession. That's the wrong metaphor, and there's so many
of these wrong metaphors in our language that we're constantly deceived by them.
There are lots of different interesting ways to wonder about minds, but you don't get anything
like them in a vacuum of other minds. If you deprive the child of language-speaking parents,
they will not make face noises like I'm making now, and they may be unlikely to acquire that
capacity even if they are later in their teens or the young adulthood placed with people who speak,
apparently. There might be exceptions, there probably are.
The problem for all of us, because we all face it uniquely, is how to make the crust work
beautifully, prodigiously, with genius and skill and effectiveness and efficiency.
And since it's pretty crusty and kind of hardened, right, and it has these flanges,
edges, and stuff on it in the way that, you know, I'm imagining it, it's not flexible.
So it takes time for insight and learning and dreaming, imagining, exploring to percolate
up and actually, you know, change that crust on the surface that we think of as ourselves and that
we think of as knowing what's going on, or at least we used to until a few months ago.
But everybody's still trying to do that, which I find both touching
and somewhat frustrating. And I'm also involved in it because I still have a crust on top and I,
like nearly everyone, have been trained to identify with that crust and think of that as me.
And if we look carefully, we'll see that we did not form large portions of that,
you know, tectonic plate on the ocean of our mind, right? We did not form large portions of it,
its shape, its surfaces, its underpinnings, its urgencies, its fears, its triumphs, all of these were,
you know, we outsourced a lot of that, right, to previous generations who built our language
and our cultures and things, yeah? And the crust was informed by our immersion in the
very,
in the articulating effluent of television and film and radio and books and people arguing and
politics and religion and ethnicity and gender and whatever you want.
So all these little articulating forces
usually become authoritative in articulating the shape of the crust and thus what it touches
and what it doesn't touch, what it does, what it can't do, so on and so forth.
I'd like to turn that crust into something resembling its more essential nature.
And the analogy I'd pick there is wings, but not just wings that let us fly in air, wings that let
us fly in dimensions they invent by flying there. Because that is the nature of our human potential.
And that is what we were born aching to be and do together, within for each other,
for the history and future of life on our world and beyond.
These mines we've trained to crawl were made to fly,
but they're weighed down with boats. I know my metaphors are getting mixed here, but
it's all crusty and as we get older it tends to crystallize and stuff unless we're really
lucky or attentive or curious or surrounded by others who can help us in some way to some degree
sort of de-scale our mines. And to learn about the anatomy,
to learn models of anatomies of a mind that can be helpful,
not just in our quest for insight, which is one I love,
but in our everyday experience and thought and relationships and concerns in our lives
that will have value because we will stop suffering and being constantly
blinded by the otherwise painful crust we've acquired from our life experience and
our culture and language and history.
Which isn't to say I'd like us to make it all go away, though that would be an interesting
