Hi, thanks for joining me. My name is Darren Stevenson. This is my YouTube channel. You
can find me on Facebook under my name in San Francisco on the web at wondercloud.wordpress.com
and on my own website with some relatively old material on organelle.org. There's some
interesting things there nonetheless. What I want to talk about right now is I'm actually
just wanting to sketch to myself these ideas. So please bear with me because they're informed.
I've been looking for a long time to talk about the difference between what makes mankind,
our species, either natural or unnatural since all of nature is, well, we can't really say that.
We can't really say that we're natural or unnatural since nature is everything. And yet,
it seems that we are in conflict with nature fundamentally. Now, in discussion with a friend
of mine recently, he reminded me that it's a false distinction. You can't separate out the
activity of human beings and say that that's unnatural since nature is everything and it
must include all of the activity within it. I can't escape it and pretend that you're
working from outside and he's right. He's right. We can't. But what we can do is make a subset of
nature and call that something like a biosphere. An animal's activity can be in conflict with its
biosphere in such a way that one or the other will perish if the animal doesn't change its
behavior because a biosphere like a human body is a very sophisticated network of relationships
that are anciently evolved. And they are also modernly evolving. So there's this there's this
wave sort of this pulsing rhythm of ancient development and structure. And then there's this
input of this kind of novelty, possibility feedback from current situations. This moment,
these contexts that change the meaning of those established standards as we think of them. And
so life is constantly reforging itself in the image of the direction of this moment, this context
and what we can understand as being ahead of us and behind us. Now there are ways in which time
speaks back to the future, speaks back to the past from the future. And that life is sensitive to
and can understand and vice and there are ways that the future speaks far into the past. Similarly,
now because time is not linear in the way that we imagine it, those ways are models and they're
incomplete. And organisms are more complete than models. My point really here is that
I've been looking for a model that talks about how human behavior and actually human intelligence
are against the purposes of life and intelligence. Now how could that be?
It goes against everything we believe and much of what we're taught, but it is very possible. In
fact, I believe it's a fact. It's easily demonstrable, meaning we can demonstrate it and witness it
objectively all around us whenever we want to. So let me talk a little bit about a few things.
First of all, I think if we imagine that a human conception event has occurred
and sperm are now traveling by the hundreds of thousands or millions toward the egg,
we imagine that we imagine them as as competing individuals.
But we sort of forget that they come from one individual, so to speak, who's actually the
representative of a vast ocean of people. So that individual is raised up on their work and
relationships. And this individual has impregnated a woman or is about to and then the sperm are on
the way. And we imagine that just one of them wins, that lucky individual, that sovereign king.
Actually, it's more like Robin Hood who wins. And when Robin Hood wins, the king is deposed and all
of the people are then proxied in an empty throne, an empty throne like
like the woman's womb, like the space on the page, like space itself.
Now Earth is not an empty womb. She's a living womb. She's filled. She's a strange sort of womb
whose children occur on her surface. And we like their greatest and most noble contender,
the avatar of Earth's biological history and relational dreaming.
And not not not not 3.5 billion years of life.
Because we have to multiply that by each of the individual elements
so that we could understand in this in a very simple way, if we take one person,
run them around the sun, one time on a planet, that's one life year, one human life year.
We all understand that one year. Well, when we say the earth is 3.5 billion years old,
we don't mean that. Because there wasn't one person on the earth going on.
One, two, three. There were thousands or unthinkable numbers, myriads of life forms together and all
of their relationships and all the interrelationships and all the reflections and the and the and the
and the and going around the sun each time. So just to be to make a really flat example that we
can understand easily, one person going around the sun one time is one life year of evolutionary
history. 7 billion humans going around the sun one time is 7 billion years of evolutionary history,
because they're all individuals, they all have a year of themselves of evolution. And then they
also have the magnified evolutionary effort of their relationships, right, which is really where
the money is, so to speak, evolutionarily, it's in all those relationships, because those are what
translate into changes, growth, education, especially for people like us, a species like us,
where we've translated much, if not all of our physical, not all, we've translated large portions
of our physical, what might have been physical evolution for us, and also relational evolution
for other creatures into machines and demonstrate that in a minute. And so we kind of gave up on
that we developed technologies, we've shunted our evolutionary momentum and the momentum of the
planet since we're the, we're sort of the evolutionary hero of Earth, we really are. They
lifted us up, I'll show you that in a minute. And then we shunted all that evolutionary momentum
of the planet while we assassinated them from above, by the way, with all of our machines.
We shunted that into massive spawning of technologies and little devices and ideas and
photographs and every kind of representation of excellence that we will not become, we just
refuse to be coming all together. We have sports teams, right, that compete for incredible,
like world heroism over nothing, nothing, or they went intelligence, a future for mankind,
a planet we could survive on. Did they stop one whale death? Did they save one prairie?
No, but, but thousands of fans will kill each other in the aftermath over
what exactly? The representations that we love so much. The automobile that sleeps in a warm
garage every night while 50 children die starving and the automobile is worth enough to feed them
all for the rest of their lives. Really? All right. I think I understand. So there's a problem
around here. The problem is that the humans can do something that no other animal can and so they
can be something that no other animal would. And they think we think that we're intelligent and
I'm going to try to demonstrate that our intelligence is very peculiar because it's
misfiring catastrophically. In fact, it will turn the remaining biologies of our world into a
snuff film in about five minutes if we don't stop it right now together and change the whole
vector of our behavior. We've become catastrophically confused. And not only that, we're sure that we're
not only are we sure we're not confused, we're basically sure that we're gods.
And so every time we make a mistake, we just kind of stomp our foot and make it harder just to kind
of show the world and the sky that nothing can stop us. I think I'm going to explain why that's a
problem in a very clear way that everyone can understand and few people are going to be able to
argue with. We tend to think of evolution as raising single winners. That's not what happens.
What happens is that populations raise heroes, reproductive heroes. And populations are groups
and they can be very small. They can be just a few people, right? A family will raise a hero.
Not everyone in the family is a hero, but if they stick together as a family and support
the heroes and the structure and then the heroes support the weaker members and actually lift them
up, right? To either equality or above the heroes, to adoration and reverence. Then we have
intelligence. Then we have humanity and we have something like the planet earth, which did that
with us. They took the disadvantaged kid, right? And they said, we're going to the whole living
planet. They didn't do this like a thought. They did it just as a living system. Yeah,
as a living organism, a super organism. They raised us up on their backs of the backs of
their deaths and their suffering and their dreams and so much as all the animals and
beings that are alive have dreams and they do. You can watch them dreaming, but they also have
dreams in the sense that they know the difference between justice and injustice in a universal
sense that's non-verbal. They know the difference between excellence and falsehood lies. They
know the difference. If you pretend you're going to pet them and then you crush them,
they know the difference. Every animal knows that difference. It doesn't take any kind of,
you know, sophisticated representational system to understand that. So the sperm that wins in
the conception is actually the one that was raised on the backs of all the others. That's their hero.
And so in a sense, 10 million beings will die to raise that one being to incredible opportunity
that will be born into the world as a human or animal. In a world 3.5 billion years old,
trillions of amazingly ramified life years old, basically a star, a shining invisible star of
relational intelligence. In every way, not merely the equivalent of the sun,
but its crown, its crowning glory. This world is the hero of our solar system in the sense of
we are the living world. And so even we represent this idea that I'm talking about that a pod raises
up a hero. And then the other members support it. And this body here is their unity, the body of
their unity. This is intelligence, actually not this. It's where they connect and how they connect
and how they can change and connect and interrelate in ways that are unexpectedly sophisticated.
Or they can fight. They can pretend that they're not unities. But if this finger fights this finger,
yeah, the hand is useless. And that's what we're up to, actually, both with our own people
and in nature. And that's confusing. Here's how that happens.
First of all, we tend to think about our species as intelligent, but we're not. We are
representationally sophisticated. That means we can make technologies that represent the world and
its forces in our minds that represent each other and ourselves in our minds. We can think about
thinking we are homo sapiens sapiens, we know that we know, or we stutter about knowledge is
actually kind of a clearer truth. Now, what happens in nature that we've got to stop immediately
is I'm going to make a little model of you can imagine a crazy animal
that grabs up a bunch of the relational and evolutionary momentum and then pulls that back
into its intelligence like a slingshot and then just goes rushing forward into a brick wall. Blam,
as hard as it can. Normally, this animal would be killed the first time it did that. And every
animal that tried that again would die. So they wouldn't reproduce and you just, nature wouldn't
allow that. She just doesn't let that fly. The reason we can get away with it is the nature of
this wall that we're smashing into. And mostly we're not doing it to grow or progress or learn.
We're just doing it because we're both like kind of angry and we're sort of frightened and we're
afraid of what our actual identity on earth is and that and also what that would mean for our
history, how we would see our history if we saw something more like our identity, which is the
hero of the animal universe and the human universe, both. So it's like the solar system universe and
it's the terrestrial universe of life on earth that lifted our species up literally above it.
Part of us likes to think so and part of us wants to say we're just animals.
Actually, we're a very, very special animal in the same way that neurons in our bodies and in the
world are very, very special cell. Neurons, the specific kinds we have in our guts, by the way,
and our brains. These are kind of a heroic sort of cell that's similar to us in the world.
You wouldn't want to just say, well, those are just another cell. Those are the basis of brains on
earth. All of them, they're not an accident. And the ones that we have are really peculiar because
they can do this thing that I'm doing. And they can make strange waves in the relational space
that are highly articulate and mechanical almost like we do. We call them machines. There have
never been waves like that in the relational space before. There never were cages before
we began to think. And our thinking is a form of making cages inside ourselves that we reflect
things into and then try to trap them there. So it's not too surprising that we then kind of
cage the world and we view the world in that modality, but that's not that's not our nature.
Our nature is to have been lifted up to impossible evolutionary super function of
rocketing into evolutionary benefit and astonishing unthinkable progress and acceleration and
progress and acceleration in phases that just pulse like a heartbeat. And they grow geometrically
over time. That's what earth would do for us if we would let her. That's what she that's how we
she raised a step. She made this pulse of the evolutionary benefit over a period of time,
like a year, the seasonal cycle. And when that came back together around the end of the year,
we would receive the evolutionary benefit of having participated in all those relationships
intimately right now as beings, not as just thinking beings who make plans and machines and
try to take benefit out of it in ways that they can represent. No, as beings who become the
benefit in their own sophistication, intelligence, ability to see and express and be human together,
within for each other, not for machines, not for books, not for religions, not for science,
within for each other and other living beings together, understanding and learning and growing
together, because we realize that the living places and the living beings
literally lifted us up. And so we now have the responsibility to co lift them, not to protect
them. They they exist in their own right to protect them would already be to admit we are wrong.
Yeah, no, to not molest them, first of all, to to unmolest them, and then to to also to raise
them through us being noble in our relations with them and true, rather than giving word, you know,
taking lots of pictures and saying we like the animals while the pictures that we are taking.
And we are copying the pictures and backing them up and transmitting them
thousands of billions of times per hour, which is actually sucking the life out of our world
in order for us to take more pictures and back them up and copy them and track them and trace
them and see if it needs to be arrested and all of that kind of thing. Now, what used to happen
is the world would pulse at the end of the season, the evolutionary benefit would be shared among
all the beings they would skyrocket up developmentally, we would be lifted up representationally and in
terms of our insight about the world and ourselves and the sky and the cosmos and the sources of
knowledge and the sources of intelligence that inform this conversation right now, rather than
we have something written down in a book where this is a speech, right? This is like a song I am
singing from my heart. It's not a speech. And so these pulses would happen and there are many pulses
each day as the pulse each breath each heartbeat and all the beings are pulsing together in this way
and it's all being shared and linking together and magnifying in a kind of intelligence that is
invisible and unspoken, but every being is receiving the benefits until that is all shattered by
terror. And how does that get shattered by terror? Well, you lift up a hero and then the hero from
above you just starts attacking you with lightning, right? Down and killing everything and saying,
you're just machines, you're just objects, right? You don't really exist, you animal, living place,
beings, you oceans, you skies, you're just things, no one can prove you have minds, no one can prove
you have souls. We can do as we wish with you. You're so big, you'll just heal back over again.
It's like a pinprick to you, right? Well, it is until there's a billion of us.
And all of our machines. And so again, we have this animal that's just pulling back the evolutionary
power of the world and their own species. And then just mostly out of hubris and kind of a
temper tantrum of fear of what their actual the beauty and power of our actual role might be
just makes a boatload of machines and then runs, you know, launches the slingshot that it's pulled
and just smashes into the planet as hard as it can. And that that harm echoes out and is absorbed
all over the world. Instead of being destroyed by the first shot like that, the beings actually
slightly strengthened and the planet takes a huge hit and dies. And then they pull it back faster,
boom, and they pull it back faster, boom. And the planet is dying in ways, boom, who as their hero
above them is attacking them from above, wasting the cetacean mind networks of the oceans.
The insect networks that supply the pollens for food on earth, which are the living intelligence
elements, you know, the gaps in our neurons are like the gaps between flowers. So we've poisoned
all the pollens, which would be effectively like the human metabolic metaphor would be if we poisoned
all our neurotransmitters, so that transmitting them destroyed neurons or misprogrammed them
wildly. Could that produce analogs of many of the relational and cognitive diseases we see today?
Could, I'm not saying it does. Maybe it does. There is a link, you know, between what we do
in the world and our minds. And I'm trying to show that it's much more intimate that we think
and it's up to the moment. It's not cause and effect. Our minds rise in this moment from this
pulsing. Yeah. So if it's all broken by assault and poison and noise and dead terrain and machines
and toxicity and radiation, if it's all shattered by shipping and explosive radar,
