into identity possibilities, situations, problems,
in seven ways rather than three. So the other night I was in a conversation
and someone asked me essentially what happened to cause the humans
to go insane and become bad to each other in the world, at least at the group levels a lot,
and certainly in many of our cohorts. And I said, well, in the first story,
there was something that actually resembles evil and we couldn't keep
away from it. It was attractive, we grabbed some, we got it on us and it got inside us.
In the second story, we had intelligent parents and they went away.
There was an accident or something and they went away. And then in the space where
the intelligent beings had interacted directly with our minds, the shadow of their absence
terrified us and we acquired an inner shadow and it's like this.
In the third story, the onset of tool building causes a problem
in how we structure consciousness and makes us susceptible to
what I call thrips, which are sort of like
viral behavioral language, something like that.
In the next story, there are two primary colors, red and blue.
We once had wise relation with both of them, something in the structure of our minds changed.
We lost relation with them and the imbalance produced an absence in us
that could act as if it were a being.
And we struggle with this. Now, I could keep making stories or rather vignettes,
but what I want you to understand is we are trained to a very problematic form of consciousness
that I call one thing mind, one thing. That's just this, one thing mind.
But what we really want to have is like five thing mind. Five thing mind, not that.
One thing mind, kill yourself, run into wall, not good, blinding. And English imports
this one valued identification system. And we want to preserve that where it is useful
and surpass it in our use of the language so that we realize quickly. It's not just this,
it's not just that. One valued thinking. Unfortunately, there are people out there
who are like, I wonder what those UFOs are? Well, they're not one thing. They might not even be
a category of phenomena we have a placeholder for in our lexicon. What if they represent,
for example, the category, what if they represent, this will take me,
what if they represent the super category of identity, meaning of whatness and who-ness?
If they are the super category, they are not what or who. They are is, being, in, relation.
What you do, what you don't do, this changes who you are and who they are.
And this is intelligent. And this is actually how damn near everything actually is.
You know, Joe, most of the time, amazing guy, catch him on a bad day, not a lot of fun to be around,
threaten one of his children. The monster in Joe will certainly come out.
Unless Joe's like super wise, in which case he will liquidly transform and both resolve the
problem and not have to become a monster. So, identity. Now, if there's a position
above our categories, we should be familiar with that position. That is where our mind should dwell.
This is a structural feature of our very confused relationships with
semantic qualities and positions. Like, ordinarily, as English speakers, we inhabit a position
underneath the lexicon or at best co-equal with it. We should not only inhabit a position
above the lexicon, cognitively, relationally, in our awareness of the peculiarities of speaking
and thinking in words, writing and so forth. We should naturally draw each other up above
the lexicon and up above the semantics if anyone should begin to fall down into that.
Ancient peoples were quite good at this. They knew the danger of believing the language.
They knew the danger of falling beneath it and having it tell you
what you are, who to be, blah, blah, blah. And this isn't just a patriarchy problem.
This is a problem with the capacity to speak as an individual, as if you're individual. This
comes with that mess. It's not merely patriarchy. Though, you know, patriarchy and the suffering of
many other, many what? Many clades, many groups, many persons
is certainly part and parcel of the payload of English. Okay, is this the way I want to go?
This looks like it might be. Although, I really hope, oh fuck, where the flappity slot am I?
And which way do I have to go?
Okay, it looks like this way. That's my thought.
That says this is a dead end, though.
So, I don't know if Park 4 is small.
Let's see where I am here.
I sure hope I'm not going up that fucking mountainside. That is not going to work.
That stairway is crazy insane. We're talking about, yeah,
that shit loopy.
It would be like climbing up the side of a pyramid or something.
So, you can see that there's a position that is something like the un,
the unformed potential for categories themselves. In fact, the word category
refers to that space, right? It's not a category. It's the categories. And there's a position
above that, I think, which is before the kinds of distinction that would allow us to impose the
concept of category. We want to be familiar with the places above language and remain aware
as we descend into those, into the behaviors of speaking and writing and thought,
so that we retain a sort of what, like those old diver's lines, right? Before they had tanks,
they would lower guys in suits with air hoses, right? We need to retain a link to the upscale
before of language and to the human, the aspects of human intelligence above language.
The aspects of our own thought, feeling, not knowing, sensing, perspective that are above
language and then travel down into it intelligently from above. Then we will see many features that
are otherwise invisible to us. It gives us, it dimensionalizes the perspective in a variety of
new ways. And we, when we tell, if we make a metaphor or something, it's often better to
make two or three rather than one. And we should avoid the construct, it's just blah, blah, blah.
It's just this, it's just that. Except, you know, I'm not saying never, we should never use such
language, but it's very deceptive to the mind. Soon we think we know what everything is,
which is a huge problem because we don't really know what anything is at all. We have a bunch of
tokens that we paint on familiar phenomena. That's it. The name of the token doesn't tell you what
that is, doesn't tell you much. In fact, it's deceptively convenient. It reminds me of American
culture, deceptively convenient, hiding a bitter isolation, loneliness, lack of communal,
vast lack of communal organs.
It is a profound liberty to be able to forge
a complex cognition on, you know, within the manifold of our human experience. But it's also
very dangerous. It easily leads to unexpected and often invisible deprivations. And so there's
a vast terrain of impoverishments that many of us have suffered at the hands of the language we speak.
It behooves us to gently and intelligently recompose ourselves
beyond the confines to help each other to recover the kinds of liberty in our thought,
considerations, learning, and creativity that are natural to our people,
but largely prohibited and counterfeited by our common cultures.
This is my dream, and I hope we will pursue it together.
Thanks for joining me. Bye-bye for now.
