Hello everybody. Welcome. It's going to be a little huffing and I'm climbing some stairs
up the side of a relatively steep incline. There are strange features of English and I don't know
enough about other human languages to be certain, but it seems extremely likely
that the languages carry a payload. And we're not inclined to be aware of this or understand it
ordinarily unless
we have an unusual purpose or we are very passionately trying to understand it or
our curiosity is profound, right? Really want to know hidden things.
I've spoken of this before when I've said
that our experience of in-languaging smuggles something in. It smuggles in a bunch of weird games
and some of these are metaphors. Some of them are sayings, right? Figurative speech.
But they are also
invisibly powerful inclinations to think about identity meaning transactions and
relationships in very specific ways that have a lot to do with the historical development
of the language we speak.
A bunch of Verte China. It's kind of crazy. You find weird things along the street in San Francisco,
believe me. So, for example, there's an us versus them. There's a very strong us versus them,
what would I call it, principle that hovers almost tyrannically in the background
over modern English, particularly as it's spoken in the United States,
but probably something similar is going on elsewhere. There's a very us versus them-ist
feature of the underpinnings of the suppositions we acquire naturally by speaking our language
with other speakers who have also acquired them and communicate them these little figures of
speech, right? These almost cartoon ideas. It is as if they are actually sketched figures,
but in language. I wonder what today modern young people would think of the phrase Uncle Sam
wants you, but in my mind it flashes a kind of a red, white, and blue image of, you know,
Colonel Sanders' weirder brother pointing his index finger out of the frame of the poster
directly at me as if he actually sees me. And in English it's worse because, in a sense,
to be seen is to be seized by being seen, and to see is to seize. This is the kind of dangerous,
weird, pun-like understructure that we didn't invent most of us are unaware of. And
there are aspects of our cognition and psyche that are aware of them.
Making them conscious, well, in either way you're going to have trouble, but you'd probably rather
have the trouble with what you can see than have a lot of trouble around stuff you can't see.
You don't notice. You don't have the, the perspectival awareness of the kind to look
from a certain angle within yourself at how behavior is structured and so forth,
how language structures behavior. And there are many experts of different fields
who are profoundly aware of this in a way that is technical.
So languages bring with them payloads and the problem with ours
is that the payload isn't old enough or rich enough compared to a language that was spoken.
I mean, what is English? It's a bastard child of the speech of the United Kingdom or something.
In fact, we might even say that one of the weirdest things about English's payload is that
it kind of encourages megalomania, right? I can see a cartoon where
somebody's thinking carefully about the evolution of English
and discovers a leg of the history where kings are giving legal decrees and they're
they're declaring them and they're writing them. And you know, you can be the king too,
just speak, speak the language of the king, you know, and take the K off, right?
Kinglish becomes English. Like literally, it's as if her ancestors were saying,
it's kingish speaking. It's a language of local authority, declaration, separate persons.
It dispenses with timelines and relationships
as easily as a hitman loads his gun, right? This stuff in the wrong hands
is lethally dangerous and it comes to us from
histories that were profoundly fraught, conflicted,
acting sometimes amorally as if the words told them what to do.
This is a people captured by the authority of language. We are that people.
And if you look closely, you will see if you study how people think,
how they think about how they speak, how their behavior changes if you modulate
a couple of variables in the language, how under some circumstances ordinary people
will are capable of saying things so profound that you might only hear such an utterance once in
your lifetime and under other circumstances articulate people cower and begin to mumble
incoherently. It's not that we have language. That would be a really wonderful thing. Language
has us. That is not a wonderful thing. That is an insane thing. And I can hear
countervailing opinions. We use language coherently. It's helpful,
useful for memory, the organization of identities, databases in memory and complex
relations between features in memory that now have a new way of existing in memory that isn't
merely straight up nervous system, but includes some map making techniques.
And mostly these are around identity function or activity, identity activity,
and what you might call origin or clade, which class of thing, situation, being, relationship,
perspective, understanding, so forth. Categoring, categorical class
profusion is one of the problems we get. But the classes can be relatively simply stated.
It's an object or it's being. And if it's being, it may have
you know other properties such as what class is it, animal, vegetable,
mineral. Of course, mineral is not usually considered a being. For some reason,
the privilege of beingness is reserved for organisms in many of these tables.
That could be extremely problematical because it'd be a really
staggeringly important thing to get wrong if you were going to get something wrong.
To evict being from objects, if indeed there's something like a superposition over
intelligences that is involved with how objects are structured and why they persist and so on.
My point though is that the languages carry payloads in older languages.
They also have dangerous parts of the payload, but they have traditional
features that are very complex and rich. One would probably be endlessly edified.
I'm suspecting anyway from the profuse intelligences and playful perspectives one might find in
a conversation in Sanskrit among scholars of their language, history, philosophy.
There tend to be this clade of folks and they're all throughout the world, but in India the
Gurus are, many of them are quite profoundly learned. And we have quite profoundly learned
people over here see there's that us and them game, them and us. We have meaning Americans.
So some of the older languages, large parts of the payload that get imported as you become
language are much more complex and much less prone to the idea of the sovereignty of the
individual, which easily breeds war. If you're by yourself in the world you better be mighty tough
because any old thing can eat you up.
The suppositions of individuality, I mean it's very hard to understand if there were any
successful individuals historically. People who just became, you know,
somehow on their own, in many cases, it could easily be understood as a fate worse than death.
Why would anyone want to be alone? The only benefit of being alone,
well it's not true. I have to be careful. I'm actually, I've fallen under the sway of some of
the baggage in English that I'm trying to point out. See I too am subject to it.
But then there are also, so I think okay what are we going to do then? What's the,
there's the problem, what's the solution? I heard some women say today.
Well if we can teach each other we can easily discover the baggage together if we are looking for
it. And not in the sense of having a kind of a witch hunt either.
Yelling at the language, that's a dumb idea. We just would improve, you know, make better
linguistic choices and we'd probably modify intelligently, continually update the way we
relate with categories themselves and we'd realize the difference between the words we're
making in situations that we're using them in and for. We would teach each other to be aware
of some of this baggage. I think there's a book, this is Lakoff, one of the authors, maybe,
metaphors we live by or something like this. And that shows a little bit of the baggage but
just the metaphoric stuff. There's all kinds of other stuff, not just metaphoric figures
and not just rhetorical figures, little phrases that indicate ideas.
You know, let your enemy go first.
If there's a problem on the battlefield,
let someone else take the damage, which is another idea. We're a bit like pigeons in this sense,
right? We clump together in cities, which does provide some degree of protection of individuals,
quote-unquote, but also many new threats.
I think throughout the history of our people, you know, our species,
there were very few situations where individuals
were common, though there were unusual persons whose relationship with their
originating peoples became very unusual. There have always been those. There have always been
something that resembles a doctor, something that resembles a philosopher, something that resembles
a seer or a prophet, something that resembles a scout or a ranger, something that resembles
a knight, a kind of a blessed battle knight who takes on weird, difficult enemies. There've always
been these kinds of things, these kinds of roles and persons in human history, always. In fact,
if you go back very far, you're probably going to find that if you could just transport yourself
back to such a situation, as an unseen observer say, as an observer that having no effect,
the first problem you run into is someone would realize you are the seen one.
They can't see you, but somebody will realize that you're seeing them. Little girl, old woman,
you know, the unusual teenage boy who sees things and doesn't speak in the same vernacular.
You see, that's part of the payload of the language. It's vernacular. That's the word I was,
the concept I was looking for. It's part of the payload. It's not the whole thing.
There's a bunch of games about value and identity, how to evaluate, when to evaluate.
Again, you can see this problem where it's very, like English really is more like Kinglish.
I'm the god of the world. I can say whatever I want. I can do whatever I want. I have no,
there's no constraining web of conserved traditions, relationships,
heritages, lineages, families. That's all gone. You're on your own with a gun. I mean,
this is the proposition, right? You got a car.
I'm just remembering that, that crazy quote
from Wise Blood, I think it is, that was used so brilliantly in the beginning of Jesus built my
hot rod. How does it go? Man, I used to be able to do it with fervor. Is it even worth it if I can?
Where you come from is gone. Where you thought you're gone, weren't never there.
It goes on something about like, nobody with a good car needs to worry about nothing.
Right? And this is the spirit of the English we are taught. It's you are alone. You are by
yourself. You are an individual. You determine what is true, what is good, what is wrong,
what is evil, you know, locally yourself. You make all the decisions. You make all the evaluations.
Somehow you're supposed to be as intelligent as a group of seven people with 12 different kinds of
skills all by yourself. And the insecurity, the inward insecurity that this naturally generates,
this lack of one's inaction people, which is counterfeited in jobs and companies, right?
Right? This lack of approval, reassurance, cooperation, playful, you know,
leaping up the developmental ladders together while resolving important, like actually noble
missions that matter. This is built into our people and compromised by our culture.
We were not all born for the same thing, but we were not born to be isolates. There were
isolates occasionally. There were scouts who didn't live in the camp, right? They traveled with the
people maybe in a tribe, right? They would travel with them, but they were never there.
They were always out and they would come back and bring intelligence about, you know, the extended
terrain and what they saw and sensed in it. That kind of thing. And you can see that in a way
many humans try to do this. They're trying to do it. All humans have a deep relationship
with predicting the future. We pretend in our materialist worldview this is supposed to be
impossible. Life organisms on earth have been doing that since fucking cell number one.
There's nothing on earth that doesn't do that. And if someone asks me, well show me the physical
evidence, what I'm probably going to say is the blinders that you're currently wearing are so
thick that the evidence your own hand comprises evades you.
How will I show you anything? People who are determined to not see and not learn
and to, you know, sit on the kingly throne of their, the fact that they speak English and
maybe can do some math if they're lucky. In terms of the rest of the world, the hubris of that is
unimaginable. You know, there are fifth graders in Pakistan that can out teach our calculus
teachers in universities. We are not as a people well educated. And so you can see how
the English speakingness creates an inherent insecurity leads to an inherent insecurity
because we speak as if we are kings and queens and you'll hear
very confused humans on the internet saying things about like this. We are kings, we are
queens, we are goddesses, we are gods. It's not entirely that they're wrong, but that particular
way of holding onto it or broadcasting it has nothing to do, it's you're doing the opposite of
what you're saying. Cognitive and relational and behavioral sovereignty isn't all it's cracked up to
be when it leads to isolation and, you know, the sorts of despair that lead to people to
just play video games or just drink themselves silly and watch, you know, streaming shows or
whatever the lost, whatever the catastrophe of semi-vampiric consumption is.
And I'm not yelling at those people. The context we're living in is so, it's literally like a
vacuum of 20 of the things that we need every day just to be human together or even by ourselves.
And it doesn't mean we have to all be clumped together all the time either. It means we have
to have meaningful roles, relationships and dimensions of identity that we enact together
successfully for learning and mutual benefit. That one thing, that thing, we need that.
And some will say, well, I don't really, and I'll say, well, I hope you're not working or anything.
Well, I need money. Well, why do you need money? I mean, the conversation quickly travels into
an exploration of how we get set up to try to acquire an abstraction of relationships, value,
nourishment, healing, love, so forth.
I was thinking earlier that it's very peculiar if I say, for example, in English,
and I'm sure this is this part kind of this sort of weirdness is probably true in other languages.
If I say to you, I'm not going to talk to you about leverage or succession.
You can see that the speech act itself is doing the opposite of what it is saying.
And this is a kind of, this is a figure of speech. This is one of the forms of vernacular.
Similarly, if I say, truly, our next guest needs no introduction, what do you suppose is coming after
that? And so you would imagine that intelligent people would realize there's a problem with the
construct, but it's become traditional to employ a flawed construct in this particular case,
in the case of that specific figure of speech. So it is possible
if I were to try to say to you, you know, I really, really mean everything I'm saying.
It's not very helpful, but if I show you that I mean what I'm saying, if my passion is contagious,
if my curiosity is contagious, there won't be any use in me saying things about meaning things or
not. If you place a delicious meal before people, they will enjoy and consume it. If you keep talking
about how good the meal is, many of them will eventually depart. They won't even eat it.
And so this is another thing that English imports.
You know, Aryans, braggadocio, bragging, peacocking, which in case it isn't obvious,
you know, older peoples, they have some unique people, you know, language to language and
people to people. They have some unique recollection that part of what their languages import is a
tradition against certain kinds of speech. And moderns might say, oh yes, they're very superstitious
about speaking. No. Even though there may be features of that that aren't,
there may be some threads of that throughout the language. What's actually in there is intelligence
