about the unexpected consequences of inelegant speech or hubris in speaking or arrogance in speaking.
Think of how many people you know who will think something resembling
if you really want something, if you want something that's really difficult to obtain or
very precious. Don't speak about it. Or you can imagine some teenagers driving, driving the car
downtown on a Friday night. It's all packed down there. There's no parking. And they're trying
to find a parking space, you know, and they almost get one, you know, something happens
where someone says something about like, I think we're going to get a space and the other two
freak out and say he jinxed us. And then a few moments later, a space that they were next in
line for gets taken, right? And they think, oh, it was the speaking was a problem. There are many
traditions about clumsy speech, inelegant speech. And by inelegant, I mean crude.
Surely, it should be obvious,
that the way we relate with language has a structural
effect on our imagination, our cognition, how we respond to ambiguity, what causes or
relaxes vigilance in us, all of these things. So,
you know, I never realized before tonight, many of the things that I have spoken around,
particularly the whole Kinglish thing.
And the irony and danger of speaking as if
one is the pinnacle of authority,
that the one from which all measurement comes, right? That is actually the kingly, queenly
power is to measure, to meet out. This is the power that is given to judges, in a sense,
in courtrooms, which is one of the weirdest caricatures of justice imaginable.
Though any reduction in humans torturing other humans makes me happy,
but transforming it so that it's not physically vicious to the degree it is emotionally and
relationally vicious, it's very strange. And by the way, you can see, it should be obvious, that
solitude and individuality, the namelessness in a prison experience is meant to be torture.
Of course, they take many freedoms away.
But it's funny, because by doing that,
they incline the prisoners to cooperation. Problem is, the prisoners have been scripted
to form and obey mostly malignant hierarchies, what are called cars in prison.
You have to pick one when you go in.
It's the worst boy network, mostly,
the people who are willing to act morally and with violence run the system.
It's an underworld inside our world, and that's a world made by English.
The payloads of other countries carry traditional ideas of filial virtue, communal unity,
mutual caretaking, respect for elders and children.
And often, there's some problematical authority that comes along with it,
respect for the provisional leader of the counterfeit country we grew up in.
I think the goal of our country was to be, was to resist counterfeiting,
in a sense, which is a very ironic mission to undertake.
Because, in the same way I said, if I say I'm not going to speak to you tonight
about leverage and succession,
right, once I announce leverage and succession, if I announce we will work together to ensure
that our country can't be counterfeited or stolen by bad ideas, people,
lethal games of language and concept, we will keep the light of human relational, communal,
and cognitive liberty alive together.
You know, four of the people signing the document are going to defect tomorrow.
There is so much money to be made, so much gold to be stolen so many lives,
to be converted to misery for the sake of tokens, numbers.
And we inherited these near term histories during our lifetimes, while English changed around us
to reflect the ever deeper counterfeiting
of virtue, verity, and vigilance.
And when I say virtue,
I mean
the accessible origins of that principle as they exist in our own hearts,
not some dictatorial list where we can check off the boxes.
I mean the real stuff.
And similarly, a verity,
a language that jump starts an amnesis,
the capacity of a language
to deliver a payload that's incredibly profound and also largely
missing the pathogens.
There must be languages
that have,
there are branches of every language that carry
noble and heroic payloads. There are branches.
Crucially,
without being surrounded by a milieu
of rich, creative, literary, philosophical, and scientific diversity,
and conversations, and debate, and exploration, and celebration, and literal heroism,
how will we remember what it means to be human together?
You know, I'm not saying it can't happen to you at church or at school
or in the Air Force or the Army.
You're going to get something in there and I know what it'll be,
but it'll be highly in service of counterfeit virtue and straight up lying
and straight up back-stabbing, back-dealing.
It almost doesn't even matter if there's a devil or not because the humans sure act like there is
one and there's a branch of us that's competing to enact it and that branch tends to hold power
because the altruists aren't particularly, you know,
they're not particularly sword and sorcery inclined. They're not warriors.
And once you involve warriors, it seems you involve many dangers for counterfeiting.
The problem though, it seems to me, I think it's very ironic and strange that I'm saying this,
is that, okay, your best few, your five best plays
are always going to be in the direction of establishing something so amazing
and human and intelligent that nobody wants to be left out.
And then making that thing self-dissolving
so that it has to be reformed from new principles fairly regularly
so that it doesn't become sclerotic and then you try not to conserve hierarchical power
in the structure of the systems, the teams, the families,
and so forth.
I wonder how far this street goes.
There's a way to create a self-dissolving structure that leaps ahead in its capacity
to perceive and resolve dangers.
And it can do the same thing creatively, technologically, scientifically,
but it can do it much better because if the recipients of advancements are trustworthy,
we can go a lot faster together.
Also, the problems our infrastructure, societal infrastructure faces are monumental
and the existing stuff, existing human electronic and physical infrastructure,
is delicate, outdated, prone to fall apart on its own.
If we're lucky enough that nobody intentionally takes it down.
So that stuff has to be remade.
Our own government was supposed to be remade regularly.
I think they thought 25 or more years per pulse, something like this maybe.
Kinglish.
Yes, it's weird.
The connotative structure of English serves the conceptual proposition of single persons.
Which that kind of inbreeding, the force of the inbreeding of a competitive perspective,
us and themism, should be obvious there.
You better be able to table a lot of power as an individual if you want safety or
you have to gather together with many others somehow and how then do you preserve your
individualness. You can. It's what are called business relationships. Another idea imported
along with the English we learn. Business relationships are not personal relationships.
And vice versa. Though, of course, at higher hierarchies, that's for the low hierarchies,
for the higher ones, they go together. You always have both, or you often have both.
You know, if you joined a monastery,
say, you decided you would study Zen or
Advaita Vedanta or Sufism.
You would begin a new way of relating with being human, a contemplative way in these cases, I think.
But also a educational transformation unless, you know, most of the people I knew, for example,
who studied Zen, had very large libraries and some of them had taught themselves Sanskrit.
Others had taught themselves Chinese. These are not easy tasks.
The Sanskrit is probably easier in some ways.
God, I hope the street goes somewhere useful. I think it's going way too far away from my house.
I've gone for a much longer walk than I had planned. So,
there are branches of study. You know, if you read through philosophy or if you study mathematics,
you essentially, what you're doing is you're recapitulating the history of mathematical
development in our species. It's the same thing with philosophy, the study of ancient languages.
What you are doing is you're having an intellectual an amnesis, you see, unforgettable.
And this is very profound. So, this is what I mean by there are branches in our culture
if your parents are artists and complex thinkers and creative or they are writers or poets or
musicians or all three, you will at least have a local example of a milieu in which discovery,
exploration, play, rediscovery, awe, wonder, enthusiasm, perhaps ecstasy or even visions
is not, these are common. You know, the garden has all the plants, right? You just
dunk her up with, we just grow beans around here, son, and we don't lack strangers
that you find all over the United States. Again, though, any community is a bit like
the topology of English. There's going to be artists and creatives and intellectuals and secret
agents, you know, hidden throughout the terrain. It'd be good if we had a signal whereby we could
easily recognize one another and authenticate our identities. That'd be fun. Or even a way of
signaling rather than a signal, right? A way of signaling that would evolve.
Good languages do this. I think, Kinglish weirdly is a slave language.
And there have been attempts to fix the problem before Esperanto might be one of them.
I don't know a lot about it, but we who speak it and write it and read it, presuming we can
much, would do well to understand some of the threat landscape of what English imports into
thought, semantics, and expectation. And at the same time forge new ways of referring
and playing in that field
that preserve our communality, our common concerns, interest identities, and so forth.
Where the actual hell am I?
What ridiculous street is this?
Okay, I get it. Kind of not. That's not Clarendon.
I think I walked to another city accidentally. This is so fucked.
Yeah, I walked way, way far away.
All right, so if I say to you, I'm not going to be speaking this evening to you about
succession or leverage, then you can see that I'm doing the opposite of what I am saying.
Another very strange modern common vernacular
that is ironic is something like,
before saying something, someone says to you, I'm not going to lie, I thought we were going
to the football field right on. As if they're doing you the unusual favor of not lying,
which is pretty strange. It's also become common, and I sometimes do it,
but to make a statement and then congratulate myself or pretend that you're correct congratulating me,
and you don't even have to go all the way. You can just go like, you can say part of it,
and people know what's going on. They know what time it is, and there's another
colloquialism in English, what time it is. It's funny when I was talking about them earlier,
I was trying to think of someone they just were not coming to my consciousness.
So there is, though, a way of doing the opposite of that.
So instead of doing the opposite of what I am claiming I am right now doing,
I'm not going to talk, I'm talking about, you know, SNL, L&S, whatever.
Does this street go somewhere useful? I am so fucking lost. Okay, I guess not.
I mean maybe, who knows, I can't fucking tell.
There I am speaking ungracefully.
Oh my, my, my. So if you imagine a bubble of many bubbles, and each of the bubbles are possible
choices or actions, thoughts or ideas, words, etc. So before I make a sentence,
I do have the opportunity to imagine any kind of sentence that can be said,
and to, they're from traverse what we might think of as a series of choices,
selections, negations, and so forth. We could think of it that way, probably isn't exactly that way.
But I could think of these possibilities and then I form the actual sentence or
sequence of sentences that I have just spoken to you now. So what I have done is I have told you
what I am doing while I am doing it, I have done what I am saying. It's the opposite of
doing the opposite of what I am saying. I will not speak of thus and such. It's very difficult in
English to try to evade the problems that arise in negation. I didn't do that. It's already too
much weirdness. It's very strange, all of this stuff.
What the hell is going on? There are street signs where there are no streets,
where the flapping slot am I? Okay, there's a street sign here for the sake of one house
or something. I don't know. This is nuts. Oh, I see. Okay, I see.
This is probably where I want to go. I don't fucking know. Let's try it.
So it is possible to do things that you are saying in English and there are certain kinds of speech
that actually allow you to accomplish a non-ordinary action by speaking very
intelligently about the potentials.
Right? About the, where does this go?
I have no idea where the fuck I am. I mean, it is so bizarre.
Oh, this is not where I want to go. Okay, I'm just lost.
There is a lot of detour around here.
It's interesting to be lost, but it's a little bit late at night for me. Okay, so
you know, language is a magical thing. It becomes an everyday thing.
Many humans have discovered
that it's not necessarily that there are magic words, quote unquote. Rather,
it is that there are magical ways of relating words and consciousness
that produce very unusual and totally unexpected results.
Okay, this is so funny. I'm going to have to backtrack. I basically almost did walk to another city.
This is fucked.
So when you think about the difference,
think about the difference in someone, in someone's ability to see
