Hold that above all the narratives.
Let that thing have the place of authority and allow the narratives to subsist or be useful in a more limited way so that they don't overtake the entire terrain.
Because this is a common problem for us.
We'll hear a story, we believe the story, we become fascinated by the story, and then generally we're going to probably just live it out.
When we might have had many other opportunities that were amazing and deserve are crucial to preserve.
We should preserve degrees of liberty in the adventures that we have where we're attempting to understand something about the essence of our minds and particularly our dreaming minds.
You know, I don't really recall ever seeing the sun in a dream, and I don't really recall ever seeing a light in a dream.
I have a memory of seeing stars in a dream once, at least, and they began to move as I observed them and I was sitting next to a woman who I have some idea who she might be.
I was sitting next to a woman and I saw the stars in a dream and the stars began to move and to kind of dance in front of me.
And I turned to the woman next to me and I said, did you see that?
And she just smiled at me with this incredibly luminous smile and didn't really answer.
So my hope is that these reflections will encourage you to explore your own dreaming experience with a sense of wonder and adventure and curiosity and amazement and reverence and maybe even adoration.
Because our dreaming experience is profoundly important to our life as human beings and it represents a context in which a context so powerful
that it can deeply inform and transform the nature of our waking experience, opportunities and potentials as human beings.
Our dreaming minds are amenable to a kind of conversation as well so that you can ask your dreaming mind a question or you can speak with your dreaming mind just as you might speak with something like the child within yourself or the adult within yourself or the parent within yourself.
All of these are analogies of course.
But your dreaming mind is amenable to being recognized by your waking consciousness and conversed with.
And I would suggest that if you wish to speak with your dreaming mind or ask it a question or ask something of it, that you move your consciousness down and deep into your belly and speak from down in your belly.
Because for some reason the dreaming mind seems to me to be intimately related with our gut and our digestive processes and our organs in our torsos rather than being a thing that largely happens in our heads the way most of us probably experience our waking consciousness.
There's one last thing that I'll mention before I begin to wrap up here for tonight and that is that dreaming is a bit like a reflection.
The reflection of something on something else and I'm not sure what the something is or what the medium that is reflecting is but this analogy is very profound and can be useful in trying to more deeply understand and experience the potentials and opportunities that dreaming
brings into our lives.
I encourage you to contact the aspect of your human essence, awareness, consciousness that is deeply involved in dreaming.
It is possible to have this consciousness with us when we are awake and this consciousness has abilities that I think we would be very unlikely to believe in where we not to directly experience them.
And some of these are opportunities that are essential to our healthy and wholesome humanity.
Perhaps we have dreamed together a little bit while we've explored this topic while I've been reflecting on this topic together with you.
I'm very grateful for those of you who have joined me and would love to hear your comments, questions or experiences so please feel free if you wish to share them.
I can see Venus high in the evening sky and the moon is nearing her fullness this January of 2020.
May your dreams be profound, beautiful, educational, liberating and joyous.
Bye bye for now.
