So, we have science, and then we also have a kind of a natural human relationship, natural,
with nature, and we also have stories that are like fairy tales about nature.
And then we have the modern version of a fairy tale, which is the science fiction story.
And I grew up with both fairy tales and science fiction stories, but compared to fairy tales,
science fiction stories were, for me, perhaps especially as a boy in our culture.
And in the birth of the technological age, science fiction in most cases radically outperformed
fairy tales in terms of being exciting, fascinating, thought-provoking, astonishing, and inspiring.
And so, I read a great deal of science fiction when I was a young man, and I was fascinated
with the ideas of what the future might look like and become, and what we might discover
about what it means and doesn't mean, what it might mean and shouldn't mean for us to be human.
And for me, science fiction was a kind of prophetic window where the finest minds who could see into the nature
of our relationships with language and technology, ideas and nature, the sky, our origins and the future,
could safely pursue their most fervent and impassioned senses and speculations, visions, really.
They were prophets.
It seemed to me. And then, as I got a little older, I began to encounter fantasy novels.
And these were to have a similarly profound effect on my mind and psyche, but in a direction or in a dimension
somewhat complementary to that of science and technology and science fiction and its promises of
space travel, contact with other intelligences, the discovery of our origins, and things like that.
So, science fiction kind of held out these particular promises, right, that we could travel instantaneously
through space, that we could, unfortunately, engage in wars with strange other alien creatures
and intelligences and situations, that we could explore and learn about the nature of the universe
in radical, amazing ways that were adventurous and exciting and dangerous and deceptive.
And whereas fairy tales held more of a promise of discovering the origins of our souls
and the landscape of something like communion, but always masquerading as magic.
And so, on the one hand, if, you know, I was a kid and I wanted to live out the fantasies in a fantasy novel,
I would want a culture and a role in a situation in which I could learn myself and my own inner landscape
and relationships, powers and abilities in conflict with some dark force, and that there might be something
like magical artifacts that represented the sole purposes of the true way, and that such artifacts
could be of great aid in battles against darkness and such. This is kind of a basic theme of role-playing
games and fantasy novels, although it's a basic theme. Sophisticated fantasy novels are far richer than this.
So, there were these sort of two paradigms, right? One was like the universe is magic, there's a secret war,
somewhere there are magic artifacts that would be of great aid. And then on the other side is the universe is filled with alien intelligences,
and the only way we can get to them is in spaceships, which are like cars that go between worlds.
And, or if they come to us. Of course, many of our ideas about that look like they come to us to destroy us.
So, we have these two sorts of fairy tales, and the fascinating thing is that neither of them are much like the world.
They're both sort of overlays, and isn't it interesting that we have overlays between us and what's actually right here,
because whatever it is that's actually right here must be so much astonishingly more, it's my neighbor's dryer,
than any of those overlays, right, because they must be derivatives of it.
The little ideas and games we make up in words and language and concepts, the stories we tell, the movies we watch and adore,
the passionate epics that lift us for a moment to memory of the highest aspirations and virtues,
potentials and futures of our birth as human beings, the pictures and stories that we read,
that excite and enthrall, surprise and frighten us, must be much less, much, much less than the two domains,
or three really, that they're concerned with, and those three domains are human culture, nature, and the sky.
These are the three domains we're concerned with. All of our stories take place in these three sort of settings.
So the funny one is that we're making toys that look more advanced than the ordinary reality right outside your door,
but this is deceptive, and it's terrifyingly deceptive, because we're actually doing it because for the reason that the reality near at hand
is so much more than either of those stories that were both unwilling, unaccustomed, and intimidated by the possibility of encountering it.
So that, for example, if we want to meet the spirits of nature, and we are modern western young men and women,
we might travel in an airplane down to South America and then enter essentially a poisoning crisis with a psychedelic drug
to produce a death-like, an encounter with death essentially, that will force the aspect of ourselves that we have completely shut down,
ignored, denied, and are there to ignore and deny some more in a new way, it will force that aspect into explicit expression.
And we will have no choice but to have a very peculiar glimpse under a very strange series of circumstances of something we will not understand,
and we will not understand the context of this experience in general, and the experience will not provide that.
So our whole culture is kind of like this, we're trying to produce these situations where we don't want to actually enter the ordinary reality right here together,
the flower in front of you, and that little thing is about to become very significant, that flower in front of you.
But I want to kind of try to do the opposite, I want to attempt a very dangerous thing.
I want us to try to see together for a moment why we have these stories and what they're standing in front of,
what they're making invisible to us.
And what I'm going to say might sound like a fairy tale, but in fact it's the opposite, it's the origin of both of these stories.
So on my back porch, there's across the tiny cement yard space underneath my porch, there's a garden, it's a very small garden by some standards,
it belongs to my neighbor, Eva.
She is an elderly woman about, oh I don't know, well she's advanced in age, let us say this,
and she can no longer tend her garden, so others tend it for her.
And it's very humble, it's an urban backyard garden.
And when I was a child I wanted a magic artifact that would at once teach me and help me to become, how should we put it,
a true person, a good and noble being somehow, against all odds, against even many of my own inclinations.
And I also wanted and hoped for the chance to have something like an intelligent spaceship,
not just a spacecraft that could take me to any world, but a spacecraft that was a companion that was itself a form of intelligence.
Because by myself with a spaceship, how would I know where to go?
I'd need a spaceship that understood the dimension and network of the betweens of worlds and living hypersystems of minds, of living worlds.
I'd need something native to that hypersystem, that network, it's not a network though, to travel in, right?
So the fact that you've discovered an ocean and can make a boat is not very interesting.
An ocean is very big, you have to know where to go.
It's also very dangerous and extremely unpredictable and filled with novelty.
So again, a spaceship wouldn't help you much and would probably get you in a lot of trouble,
because human minds tend to have very confusing and very ironic desires.
So I'd always hoped for some chance to meet the magic, right?
Or to learn why we had all those stories.
Or to meet an intelligence from another world.
Possibly, I guess I imagine like everyone, they might arrive in a spacecraft or a disk-shaped craft, like those we've heard of,
and those that have fascinated me in science fiction since childhood.
So I had these ideas, they weren't unreasonable, because they were from the culture, right?
They were from that overlay of culture, they weren't from the sky and they weren't from nature.
And by the way, the books we have about the sky, those books are called religions, right?
So the sky books are called religions, the nature books are called fantasies,
and the human cultural technological books are science fiction, right?
Of course, they all mix together, none of them are explicitly distinct.
And yet, the sky books claim explicit distinction.
The Bible and the Quran, the other holy books, they claim an explicit distinction above all stories.
They claim something like divine verity.
Now interestingly, so too do certain aspects of science do this.
They claim kind of extreme verity, these are the truth.
So I got the idea that the road into space was based on machines in science.
The way into nature was probably based on some kind of magic.
And the way into culture was the mastery of technology, methods and systems, ideas, language, math, physics, computing.
And I think a lot of people probably have similar experiences to me and they oriented toward one of these features, right?
They oriented toward the sky books, toward the fantasy books, or toward the culture artifacts and imperatives.
And of course, there's a terrible conflict between all these three, right?
And then there's a very small number of people who kind of went right to nature, too, and wrote and lived about that.
So we'll include them.
And here's the ironic thing that I never would have guessed.
And it's going to sound a little bit confusing at first.
I'm sure in fact, to be quite frank, I'm desperately trying to figure out how to communicate this clearly
because it's just not going to make much sense in ordinary language.
But that little garden outside my back porch is more than all those things I wanted and thought.
And it's right here with me.
It's not far away.
It's more than all of the fantasies, all of the technology.
It's more than all the science fiction.
It's more than the Lord of the Rings.
It's more, it's more, it's more, it keeps being more in a way that's impossible to understand.
And there's something really hilarious about this because, first of all, the way in which this is true is invisible to our ordinary ways of thinking, right?
And because we can't think this way, we're in a strange position where we're not likely to notice, right?
And we're likely to see and think in all the overlays we've been taught from culture that have divorced us from our humanity
and kind of placed us in a really peculiar, disembodied mind where we're choosing between fictions
and how to emulate and impersonate and personate in all these little overlays and fictions and things.
So when we look at the garden, we don't actually have any idea what we're looking at.
And if we did for a moment, which is my hope that we might begin to get a more interesting idea of what we're looking at,
part of the reason that we don't is that it would be terrifying.
It would be so beyond anything that we've ever imagined possible that the structure of our mind would have difficulty surviving it.
It would be the incipient threat of madness because if all of the things in all of those stories were less by far
than your relationship with that garden right now and you suddenly felt and knew and could see all the ways in which that was true
and could be an act in those ways, unlike being acting in any of the fictional overlays of our culture
that replace our humanity and relationships with nature, if you got a taste of that even for a moment,
it would be so shocking it would destroy everything you'd ever thought about identity, meaning, value,
what a person is, what an animal is, everything, it would completely wipe that out with something so shocking
that just to stand in it for even a moment is a terrifying ecstasy that most would flee from the face of.
And that would have to be true because if nature is more than all of the fantasies and all of the science fiction,
if already in a flower is more than everything that machines can ever be and you have direct access to that
because you are the same kind and way of being, you're actually extensions of one another, you and this flower,
if that were true then everything humans modernly believe and think and do
and everything they've done in the past and all the stories and all the books would be shown to have been exactly wrong
in explicitly the opposite direction of what's right in front of us.
And our mind, like just your ego mind, yourself, your person, the way you think, it doesn't want to approach any threat like that ever.
That's actually why people go to great extremes like flying down to South America and inducing a psychedelic death crisis
which will give them far less than what I'm talking about, far, far less than what I'm talking about.
That's why they'll do that, they want to have the thing that, well it's vaguely similar but it'll fit in my paradigm.
It'll fit into how I think about the world and myself, life and death, value, objects, animals, it'll fit in.
It won't obliterate it, right? Because if it did none of those people would ever come back, right?
And they couldn't, they better not have jobs or families or anything in the world because they just wouldn't be able to function.
So you can see what I'm implying here so far and it is this, that little garden.
And I don't mean in ideas or concepts, I mean directly, excessively, the way you can drink water, is a door.
And the door leads to the origins of everything.
And it's not a network, it's something we don't have a name for.
I don't even want to call it a network because we've got the wrong idea about what a network is.
But if you understand that a network is a derivation of a mind or a brain, right?
A network is a mechanical derivation of a living, organismal, yeah what is that?
Now I'm in trouble.
A system of relations that extends beyond the body that is localized as the brain, right?
So a network is an abstraction of that idea, mechanical abstraction.
What you've got in the garden is essentially like a synapse, yeah?
In a brain that has multiple orders of brain likeness, yeah?
And that synapse has entrance portals.
And what they open onto is a mode of flowing.
A mode of flowing where an aspect of your being that is made to know and travel in this system of relationships,
yeah, this hyper system of minds and beings.
An aspect of your being that is made to travel there recognizes those doors.
But your thinking mind is not.
And in fact, just to continue going on as the thinking mind and self that you're familiar with,
it has to explicitly not recognize those and give you stories and adventures and things
that give you a little bit of the thrill of what it might be like to have a first person experience
instead of that of a spectator, right?
To be the protagonist rather than to observe them.
That mind explicitly avoids contact with those portals, if you will.
And when you dream, you're kind of in a flowing mind.
Identity is flowing. It's very flow oriented.
It's really hard to distinguish things in dreaming in the way that we think about those experiences once we are awake.
In dreaming, gender is sort of fuzzy.
Boy can be a girl inside.
You know, lots of different things can happen.
So in dreaming, there's sort of a flow like aspect to meaning movement relation and identity.
And the flow like aspect has precedence.
And you can feel the loss of this flow like aspect when you awaken from the dream.
You'll feel like everything was sort of flowing togetherly connected and it felt so amazing.
And now it's kind of like I'm in a photograph, right?
It's kind of like I'm in a frozen version of that where only I am moving.
It used to be that everything was flowing and moving.
Now only I am moving and everything is kind of static and doesn't have anything in it, right?
So the flowing in the dream is relational.
It's kind of like an intimacy liquid, right?
That is exchanged.
And it's not the words or gestures.
It's not the plot.
It's something deeper, right?
It's the relational exchanges in there, many domains of meaning.
It's very much a flowing experience.
And it's funny because we think of our...
You know, there's a whole story in the Bible about Adam and Eve at the tree, right?
They have some problem.
They get in trouble with an angel.
They acquire some way of seeing.
Very interesting.
And then in response, when God returns, they hide their flowers.
Isn't that interesting?
And they hid their flowers with the leaf, at least in some versions of the story,
with the leaf of a fig tree.
It happens to be the only tree in nature whose flower is invisible.
Microscopic.
Can't be seen with a human eye.
And so one of the things I want you to just simply understand,
