without really knowing what to do with it yet,
is that when you're looking at the little garden,
every place you see a flower,
that's a portal into the origin of life.
When you're born to travel into the web,
that portal leads into with an aspect of yourself
that you're only familiar with from dreaming.
And when you're awake, this aspect is nearly frozen and practically holding its breath.
And it's aching for a moment to travel, to flow again.
And isn't it ironic that in English,
the actual name of the portals in the garden is flow-er.
And we know that our genitalia are flowers.
It's quite fiercely obvious, not a metaphor, yes?
But what we have forgotten is that above and behind,
before and around that physical flower,
and the feelings and urges that orient us with that flower,
almost like as if it were a compass,
drawing us and repulsing us into orbits and encounters, yes?
Behind all of culture is this flower, these flowers and this relationship, yeah?
Underneath everything we do, our language, everything,
our relationship with these flowers,
which Adam and Eve apparently in the story we all know hid after the accident.
Why did they do that?
They had learned something that they couldn't unlearn.
But what I want to get at is this, those flowers between our legs
are like the fingernail of a butterfly.
And that butterfly changes and flows and has capacities
that make what we can do with the flowers between our legs seem relatively trivial.
That butterfly, a flowing, changing aspect of yourself
that is known to you from dreams but alien to your waking life,
and is the origin of all those stories and the skybooks and the science fiction books
and the culture itself, all of these things,
that creature is meant to travel in and as the between of beings
and the intelligences and forms of intelligence that dwell and learn and develop there.
And when you see flowers, you're looking at the portal
and when you give them or love them, that's the door, but you've got it wrong
if you think that the object is the interesting thing.
Now if this is true or something like this is true,
then what I'm saying is more than all of the magical objects
and curses and spells and situations and all of human fantasy
and more than the wildest presentations of all of science fiction
including all possible, contact with all possible intelligences,
that every flower you see is the gateway to something far beyond those stories
and you were made and born to know and travel in it as your own being,
not as a spectator to stories about it.
And that fact is so terrifying and so shocking and so filled with promise
that all of the cultures on earth have done everything they can
to make that impossible in language, concept, action, thought.
We've poisoned the pollens, right?
We never understood in looking at the garden what the bees represented
and this butterfly, this creature inside you that travels, it's a pollen-like creature.
It can turn into a flowing dust and go into any doorway
and travel in it as the living hypersystem from which minds emerge,
from which the forms of life emerge.
And it is this you were born for and it is this possibility that every flower faces
if you will but recognize that you inside have no identity, no face.
You are a flower.
You are a flower.
And when you recognize in nature the likeness of that aspect,
you will flow into it, yes?
And in this moment, something beyond anything I can ever hope to speak of
or point at or frame to you will be remembered
and you will never forget.
And the stories may still be interesting, but when you see a flower,
you will remember and know how to use and learn the portal
that leads to where we come from, where our minds originate,
where these languages are derivatives of little pieces of.
And you'll probably at that point gain some very peculiar insights into
the overlays we produce as human culture, why we make the stories
and what we might do instead that's so much more interesting
that it might be just be possible that no one would ever write another book
as what we'd be doing in living would make such books superfluous.
