Hey everybody. Welcome. I don't know if you can see, but the sun is quite golden as it's
beginning to set and in the tree on the in the old dead tree on one of the upper right-hand
branches, there's a hawk. So before I begin, I'm just gonna talk for a few minutes about a
couple of topics. One being the idea of the new year. Because I was, I wrote a post about this
last year, I guess. And I often, you know, I have a Facebook account and I don't really talk much
about my personal life there for lots of reasons, but I use it a bit like a notebook. And I have
for a long time now, probably at least 12 years. In any case, last year I posted something about the
idea that I think our calendars are nonsensical. And so are machines like that one. In fact, I think
those machines should just explode. I really wish they would actually. Oh, I'm gonna get my phone
shadow. Wow. I haven't really had that problem before in a video. That's kind of, it's kind of
trippy. So I have to come at it from the side here to avoid the phone shadow. I don't know which
side is my best side, but this side probably has less moles. So yeah, I think our calendar is
nonsensical. And it's a weird representation of a repeating metric that while it conserves some
resemblance to the procession of moons and the sun in the 365 day cycle that we call a year,
actual years should have varying lengths if the idea is even meaningful. And I think the idea is
somewhat meaningful. We consider it, though the concepts are a little iffy, we consider it to be
the measurement of one orbital cycle of the earth around the sun, presuming, and I think this is a
huge presumption, that the important thing the earth is doing is orbiting the sun. And that
that's got the right precedence of value. Because what we tend to neglect in our common conceptual
ideas is that precedence is produced by how you participate in something, not by the idealization
of it. Thus, in a question earlier, a friend of mine asked something like, I wish I could remember
the exact statement, because it's important, how would one derive an orientation in a situation in
which there were no directions, or in fact, the possibility of directions, or orientation was
precluded. And I said something like, an orientation is an idealized thing. You couldn't produce an
orientation, but you might be able to orient here, which is a behavior, right? And this places the
precedence on the experiencer, rather than on the abstraction. And this is one of the central
problems in thought and language for human beings for thousands of years. And by problem, I don't
mean, oh, here we have a conundrum. I mean, something that will get us all killed and destroy the
world, right? That's what I mean by a problem. This is a terrifying nightmare. It's not some
trivial philosophical, you know, diversion. So my friend said, yes, yes, that distinction is
valuable. I understand it. Because he gets that there's no such thing as ideals. And that abstractions
are nothing like human experience. And the first, my first response was something like, well, in a
situation in which there's no direction. So this question comes from a philosophical problem about
a sphere, a being who is a sphere, right? Like the earth, for example, except the earth isn't a
perfect sphere, but hey, close enough, same with the sun. The sphere is distorted by various forces
and situations, we might call them distorted. See, that's the weird idea. For the humans, anything
that diverges from the perfect abstraction is problematical. So that's a distortion, right?
Which it should be the other way around. The denigrat- the derogatory idea should be the ideal,
not the deviation from the ideal, which is natural and factual and ordinary, right? But for humans,
representational cognitives like us, we think, oh no, the ideal is where the precedence is. And
anything that diverges from the ideal is less than perfect, imperfect, and thus to be looked down upon,
right? To be valued less, to not acquire the precedence.
Hilarious. So I think my initial response was something like, and again, the problem comes,
I have to keep backtracking, because I'm so excited that I lose my train of thought.
Imagine that we're talking to a being that is a sphere. And it's a sphere that lives in a space
in which there are no distinctions available in the space itself. In other words, there are no
heat gradients, there are no other central objects like stars, there are no magnetic gradients.
And so if we were talking to a being like this, how might we attempt to communicate the ideas of
forward and backward, right and left, up and down, even maybe before and after, if there's
nothing to distinguish the space, right? So this is an interesting question.
Okay, so now that I've posed that question, I have to come back to my previous thread.
The precedence lies not with the ideal, but with the experiencer, not with the abstraction,
which is a model in which we've evicted participation, sensation, relation, right? For the sake of
an ideal construct, which appears to be generally or universally the case. And this brings up the
problem of what we consider normal and abnormal, ordinary and non-ordinary, and all these similar
matters, right? And these judgments, I have a number of friends who are constantly at pains to
determine whether their behavior is normal or not, because they think, according to the common
custom, that if their behavior is not normal, then something's wrong with them, right? Because
there's only two sides, right and wrong, for the mind that makes abstractions and believes in them,
right? You're either correct or incorrect. That's right or wrong. It's good or bad. It's these bipolar,
mono-valued, mono-dimensional contrasts and conflicts, and there isn't anything else
to this mind that thinks this way. Now, of course, when I think about things, I like to think about
them in continuums, continua, right? So there's a spectrum from the most severe imaginable extreme
of A to the most severe imaginable extreme of B, which appears to be its opposite, but is probably
an aspect of a circle, one of the dimensions of which, right, the sort of what we get in the
continua is basically a semi-circle, right? It's a half-circle, but there's an underneath, and if
we expand the dimensions, there's this dimension, right? There's the third dimension where the
circle becomes a sphere, and there you can add additional dimensions beyond that, and we should.
So I tend to think in continua, but then I also add to that a layered array of topologies where
there are complex conjugates of qualities instead of yes or no, black or white, good or bad,
you know, desirable or undesirable. And in fact, even the ideas of desirable and undesirable
are deeply determined by what happens in the future, which is something we cannot ordinarily
conceive of. We can think of it, so I guess we can conceive of it in a way. What I mean when I say
we can't conceive of it is there are certain relatively ordinary predictions. If I drop this
glass on cement from a height greater than five inches, right, it may break. If I drop it from a
height of 17 feet, it will shatter, right? So there's certain kinds of predictions that we can make
that are relatively, obviously they are reliable, they are consistent, right? They are consistent
with our experience. But what we don't know is if I shatter this glass, what future consequences
will ensue other than the shattering? How will the shattering of this glass affect me?
How will it affect future situations and circumstances? All of these things are unknown to
us. And in order to determine that the shattering of the glass is the important event, we evict
all of the other repercussions or consequences as trivial. We decide, well, those are trivial
things because what I'm actually concerned about is what happens when I drop the glass.
But the future of the universe is what happens when we drop the glass. And certainly that's
inconceivable to us in the sense that it is impossible to predict or encompass the consequences
with our representational consciousness, our evaluative consciousness, our rational or logical
thought. All of these things, these are impossible things. Now it doesn't mean here's the big argument.
Are we in fact actually or potentially in possession of faculties that might allow us
to encompass the consequences much more completely or
effectively in terms of predicting futures? And let's face it, predicting futures is very
fucking important for every organism. If in the garden, if the blue jay or the sparrow
decides to move from one branch to another, it has to check very carefully. And it doesn't just
check. It's checking for predators, particularly raptors, because raptors are the most serious
predator around here for small birds. It's also checking for humans because humans are dangerous.
Humans can throw things or shoot things. Birds are aware of this, excuse me. So
the little birds have to check primarily for hawks and raptors, but they have to do something else.
They have to intuit whether or not it is safe to move from a protected position
to a less protected position right now. And when they are doing that, they are involved in
predictive cognition. Also, they have to imagine things. They have to use memory,
the memory of the fact of the common presence of predators coupled with
their proprioceptive condition in the moment, coupled with their history, their memory of
historical situations, coupled with their capacity to imagine going from this branch
to this protected branch to that less protected branch and the consequences and all of these
kinds of things. It's not entirely dissimilar to what a human has to do to successfully cross
a busy street. We have to make predictions. And so predicting things becomes fundamentally
central to survival for at least for complex organisms, but it's reasonable to imagine
that analogs or superlogs exist for less complex organisms, such as bacteria, viruses,
and other microorganisms, or even for organs in our body, which can be thought of,
and I think it's useful to at least imagine this as distinct animals or
organisms encompassed by my skin, my distinct self, as if within us there's a zoo.
And this is a very useful idea.
I've often remarked on the peculiar
and unexpected situation that
if I put my hand on my girlfriend's belly so that I can feel her belly,
presuming I have a girlfriend, and I begin to talk to her stomach, it will begin responding
almost immediately in a way that's loud enough that almost seems like her stomach is talking.
And I've demonstrated this more than 60 times with various girlfriends throughout my life,
and they find it amazing. I find the opposite thing amazing, that we don't think of our organs
as beings. We think like, well, I'm the being, right? We're putting the precedence on the unity,
not entirely unreasonable, but we should be able to inhabit the other position as well,
where we put the precedence on the elements that form the unity, and we attend them lovingly,
caringly. So again, the problem with the earth orbiting the sun is where do you put the precedence,
right? And the problem with a year is what has the most important precedence. So clearly,
for each of us, one of the frameworks that we use to understand time is how many years we've
experienced, right? From our birth to the anniversary of our birth in the calendar.
So many things I want to talk about. I wonder if I can reach them all.
So that's an individual year. That's a way of individualizing the year, but it's not the only
way. Some people could imagine the approximate date of their conception and go conception to
conception as the anniversary. But again, they'd mostly be using the regularized calendar, which
is a little weird. I'm not sure when the actual year should formally begin. It would be some
compromise between probably the solstices and the moon cycles. The moon cycles are the little
year and the solstices would be the big year, but it's not entirely clear on which one of the
solstices we should, which one we should call the beginning, if we put the precedence there.
In some cultures, particularly some Amerindian cultures and probably other indigenous cultures,
one of the things that demarcates age is not so much when one was born, but how many winters
one survived, because winters, lots of people died or suffered terribly during the winters.
So one's age might be expressed in winters survived, right? So the year would actually
essentially become whatever the beginning of winter, which is usually starts on a new moon,
the first winter moon. How many winter cycles of six or seven moons, I think?
Is it six or seven winter moons or six or seven summer summer moons? I can't recall.
Again, it depends on where you put the precedence.
But there are cycles in which, and the animals know the cycles, right? The humans don't determine
the cycles by counting moons. They determine the cycles by watching the moon and observing
the animals in plants. So the animals in plants determine, their behavior determines, if like,
for example, the raptors don't set up nests in the moon cycle in which they ordinarily set up nests,
this will be a 13-moon year, is one protocol or paradigm that is used,
particularly in Blackfoot culture. Then you get an extra moon cycle in that year.
So again, where's the precedence? The precedence in this case is to the raptor's mate
in the sixth moon or the specific moon in which they ordinarily mate. If they don't,
we have 13 moons this year instead of 12. That's just one example of there must be
100 different models or frameworks or paradigms that are used by humans and have been used
traditionally around the world. The Vedic calendar is probably lunar. The Jewish calendar is lunar.
It's unclear to me whether the Islamic calendar is ordinarily lunar, but I suspect it is.
Because lots of indigenous peoples, maybe most of them, have lunar calendars and the idea of
January or Saturday is meaningless to them, completely ridiculous.
So when does the year begin? It depends on where we put the precedence. And what's the
meaning of a cycle? Because surely it's a relatively recent idea. Well, this may not be true.
It's probable that there were other even ancient peoples who at least had the intuition
that the moon was going around something. I mean, excuse me, the moon, maybe the moon was going
around the earth, but the earth was circling something and probably the sun. Even though we
in our written histories presume that this was discovered at some relatively recent time,
it's unlikely to be true. It's conceivable, but it's unlikely. The fact is we have no records of the
ancient peoples. So today, in America we celebrate the, you know, we have what we call New Year's Eve,
which is the last day of the previous year. And apparently,
the first second after our clocks strike midnight is the beginning of a new year,
a year that we number as 2020. I certainly never expected to live this long,
and I also believed that we'd be living in a
peri-utopian future by now, at least in my youth, I believe that. But that's because I believed the
myth, the lethally deadly myth, that constant improvements in technology would free us from
war, poverty, environmental decimation, and the other plagues that humans have instigated here
on earth. None of those things took place. What took place instead was more or less the
establishing of a dystopia, or a layered array of dystopias, a feedback loop of, you know,
ever more complex dystopian processes, things like this.
Now, I had a conversation with a friend of mine before I began this video today,
and my initial intention was just to speak briefly about the problem of temporality and calendars.
You know, these days when I hear someone coughing, it's fairly disturbing, right?
I've always been aware, during flu season and cold season, that people who are just, you know,
coughing are spreading disease because we produce aerosols.
Clouds and plumes, we produce aerosols and plumes. Clouds of microscopic and macroscopic
particles that flow all over the place. Other people breathe them in, they get them in their eyes,
they get them in their nose, and they become sick. This is how primarily the flu has always
been spread. You can get it by touching things and then touching your eyes, mouth, nose,
touching one thing, then touching another thing, spreading it there, and then touching
that thing later, and then touching your eyes, or nose, or mouth, or food. But most commonly,
it's spread by aerosols. So, you know, I've always been aware that if someone's coughing,
like in the line in the store next to me, I get out of there. I don't want to get sick.
And I don't like to be enclosed in a vehicle, like one of the trains or, you know,
buses or whatever, with other people, because they're all, it's essentially a carnival of
contagions. Now, I'm not particularly germaphobic, but I don't like to get the flu, and I don't like
to get colds. It's a miserable experience, mostly. Though it does have some upsides as long as it
doesn't kill you, or fuck you up, injure you in some way. It has some upsides, right? It resets
certain features of your body. It's a little bit like having a war inside your body because your
immune system gets hyper-activated, and that changes all kinds of conditions and your metabolism,
and so on. The primary reason that we get achy and really tired when we get sick,
at least this is the story I've heard, the description I've heard from my molecular
biologist friend, is that our cells have to change. Many of our cells start producing
immune proteins, or certain classes of cells is the right way to say it,
and that's a lot of work and requires huge amounts of energy. So, that's why we get tired
and achy when we're sick. But these days, when I hear people coughing, I'm very concerned,
because I know that that could mean death, right, or permanent organ damage,
