understand about the nature of being alive. So we have all these faculties, most of which we will
never even taste. And this is part of why we have these stories like fantasy novels and science fiction
in which there is magic and other intelligences and why we have skybooks, which in a sense could
be understood as early versions of science fiction. They are speculations and weirdly normative
declarations about the nature of the most important things. What is the universe for?
What is it doing? What does it mean to be alive? What is light? What is time? Why is there a world?
Why are we born? What is death? What happens after death? What happens before life? All of these
questions, right? But unfortunately, the left hemisphere, the least equipped aspect, and it's
not just the left hemisphere, right? Obviously, the hemispheres always work together in people who,
you know, have both of them, but there are situations in which certain aspects of one hemisphere
are more active than certain aspects of the other or are relatively dominant, right?
Certain aspects of my hemispheric laterality, the difference between the faculties and my two
hemispheres light up when I'm lecturing as I am now. And you can see the complete change that
overcomes me when instead I'm relating with Jan about her glove, right? And that's a radical
transformation of the moment of what we might call the moment of lateralization behavior
or inaction. And it's not just the brain. This is the another one of the idealizations. All of
your faculties are in your brain. Bullshit! The brain is nothing without a body. There's no such
thing as a brain in a box. And the idea of a brain in the box is how we got computers, which are
really fucking dangerous for human beings to have, because we don't have the intelligence that's
capable of guiding our technological development in a way that produces insight and intelligence
rather than disaster and environmental catastrophe, war, and disease. So
the onset of the dominance of what I'll call what I like to call representational cognition,
which I associate with particular modes of largely left hemispheric dominance, activity,
inaction, the story over time of the development of the relationship between humans and
representational cognition, language, and its bizarre effect on us. It's literally like we
ran into something like lexicon. We ran face first into a weird sort of coding that would not only
change the nature of the animal we could become, and part of this had to do with our discovery
of the capacity to make tools with our hands, right? Using our hands changed how we would think
and what we would become. And let's see. So literally it was almost like we ran into a meat
grinder, and what it kept grinding out was conceptual formulas, models,
prescriptions, and these weird little books, like the dream books. The dream books are
indicative of a hallmark in that process, an ancient hallmark, where the left hemispheric
aspects, the developing dominance of verbal conceptual cognition, representational cognition,
just as we, the processes that we're developing in that time,
expressed as symptoms of where we are in that process, things like these little dictionaries
of portent correspondences, what we call spells, hilarious irony there,
dream dictionaries, and so on. And that led eventually to the bizarre and dangerous declaration,
and this is a very important aspect of pseudo-left hemispheric dominance, right? It doesn't ask
questions, it declares, and it doesn't care about verity. If it can say it, it is the truth,
and if you don't believe that truth, it will destroy everything. This is the really weird
aspect of the parts of our minds and societies that echo them. See, at least in our bodies,
we have a right hemisphere that interrupts some of this shit and corrects it. You can see that
happening when I encountered my friend Jan. You can see the sudden transformation of my
consciousness, which is a beautiful thing to see, and a wonderful feeling. But our societies don't
have any corrective right hemisphere. The left hemisphere just keeps saying over and over again,
you will do the thing, you will do the function, or I will kill everything, right? And that's kind
of how the left hemisphere is, it's disembodied. That's why we have these models of idealization
of time, right? It doesn't care about nature, the moon, or any of these things. In fact, it doesn't
care about anything except its own models. And so there's this property of this kind of consciousness
that emerges particularly in certain forms of schizophrenia. And when people are triggered
to do violence, there's this property of, I will kill everything, you know? One of my schizophrenic
friends has taught me very deeply about this property, and when this aspect of his consciousness
is triggered, which he's fully capable of resisting, thankfully, the goal becomes just to kill everything,
destroy everything. If the things don't do what I say they should do, all of them should die.
This is a simple statement of this aspect's character. And strangely enough, there's a property
in dreaming. There's an aspect of the interaction between the waking and the dreaming mind that I
call the dream assassin, that is its function is to destroy the dream world. And the way that it does
that is by instigating a significant conflict or violence or terror. And when it does that,
the adrenaline collapses the dream manifold and we wake up. Now, obviously, the character in the
dream that catalyzes that process, the sort of the dream hit man, that character collapses when
the dream manifold collapses. But what if that character crossed over into our waking mind?
And now, this character wants omnipotence. And since over here, it is catastrophically impotent,
and no one acknowledges its authority, it wants to kill everything, everyone. The whole world
should be destroyed. The universe should be destroyed. The destruction of the universe should
itself be destroyed, right? It's an infinitely recursive necessity of obliteration, of a completely
disembodied process that is uncorrectable once it becomes dominantly established in a people
or a single mind. So this is part of the great danger, though there are many others. And let's
see here, I've been talking for an hour. You know, my friend asked me earlier, do you think
the transformation from oral traditions to written traditions was part of the problem?
And sure, it is part of the problem, but it's also more like part of the symptom, right?
Now instead of song, we'll have speech. And now instead of speech, which is still filled with
music, we'll have writing, which there's no music, unless you are subvocalizing.
And then from that, we'll go to code, in which there's no language, there's no music, there's
just numbers. And this is a fundamental problem for life on earth. The humans have to resolve these
matters. We have to learn to distinguish between the kind of truth, the facticity of spoken words,
the words I am speaking now are the words I am speaking. That is true, right? That kind of truth,
and the truth of meaning, embodied in one of the paradoxes that was probably not first produced
by Bertrand Russell. Oh wow, what just happened there?
Surely someone besides Russell formulated this before he did.
But many of us are familiar with the paradox. This statement is false.
Now one of the problems with that statement, the first thing we should notice about it, I think,
and there's a more complex thing that I'll introduce shortly, is that
the statement has no content. And a statement that has no content cannot have truth value.
It has to have null value, right? The value of the statement, in terms of being true or false,
is null. The same way that
I didn't see the hawk or owl take the prey, but I saw it strike the tree.
It was kind of magical. I saw it strike the tree, and then it disappeared.
I don't know how it did that. It's mysterious and magical.
So the first thing we should notice is that the statement has no meaning. Therefore,
it cannot be either true or false. It must be null. If we declare that our goal is determined
whether it is true or false, we have to say, no, it is neither. It's a null statement. It's a
meaningless statement. However, there's a more important thing to understand, which is kind of
paradoxical if you examine it very deeply. No statement shall promote itself to the order
of minds, which are necessary to interpret statements. And that's what this statement is doing
by self-reference. There's more complex statements of this principle. No statement shall by self-reference
or other means promote itself to the function of minds, which are necessary to interpret
statements, but simply stated, no statement is a mind. And statements that propose or pretend to be
minds should be very carefully dismissed. Now, the irony is that my formulation of the antidote,
in a sense, because it is universal, it does what it's telling us statements shouldn't do.
But that's a very complex feature. And it's okay if it does that as long as it eliminates the problem
along with itself, like the dream assassin eliminates itself along with the dream. Although
it's a really weird comparison that I wasn't expecting to make. So for now, as it is getting dark,
and New Year's Eve in the Western world anyway, is upon us, and we're about to enter
a seemingly impossible future. I think I will wind up my video.
We can solve these problems if we become intuitively, emotionally, and intellectually
aware of them. In order to solve them, we have to realize their natures and origins and characters.
As we do this, the problems do get solved. When I finally understood what the dream
assassin was doing in my dreaming life, suddenly it transformed and I was able to overcome it.
Now, that isn't necessarily a good thing because in my dreaming life, that being or that function
embodied as a being in my dreams serves a very important purpose. So I don't want to make that
purpose go away, but I do want to understand its nature, why it is attacking me, my dream, and
resolve that conflict. So what is required isn't just that we intellectually understand some of
the things that I've said. We have to come to realize them in terms of their relationship with
our own natures as human beings, as individuals, as collectives and cohorts and pods. We have to
understand their effect on our awareness and how to free and retrieve some of the faculties
that are otherwise completely inhibited, destroyed, or impaired by our relationships,
our common and habitual relationships with language, concepts, and representational cognition.
And we can learn so much from the ancient books and learning about the strange hallmarks and
landmarks and milestones of the development of these problems when we see things like
compendiums of, you know, dictionaries of dream symbols, a toad means it will rain, you know,
blah blah blah blah. Those books aren't particularly useful for what they are,
what they pretend to be, but they are profoundly useful in helping us to understand the history
of the development of the predicament we find ourselves in as moderns. Thank you for joining me.
I hope you have a, I wish you all blessings and joyful success in all the aspects of your life
and thought in the coming year and the coming years and even in our history. Thank you for joining
me. Bye-bye for now.
