and I think it's not entirely unreasonable that some people are concerned about the vaccine.
There are reasons to have some concerns about the vaccine. It's not perfectly safe,
and what we mean by safety isn't particularly to individuals. It's a statistical idea of
safety, right? It's generally safe for most people, but COVID is primarily unsafe for a vastly larger
cohort, and will kill some percentage of that cohort outright. The vaccine could contribute to
someone's death, but it's unlikely to kill them outright. Probabilistically, the massive
danger is on the side of COVID, not the vaccine, at least for the moment. Though I agree that
if we're going to administer a medication to hundreds of millions of people, we need to be
eight times more careful than we usually are, not less careful, as we apparently have been,
whoever we is in this case. The medical establishment, researchers, medical infrastructure, and so on.
And also, doctors don't think carefully enough about this medication. It's a political,
an ideological decision. It's a religious decision, and the religion is something like
science is real, medicine works. The vaccine is safe by declaration,
because we're putting the precedents on the statistics rather than the individual, right?
And there's no one for whom the vaccine is contraindicated, essentially, or nearly no one,
right? Someone who's going to die anyway in the next couple of days, they don't need to have a vaccine,
but there's no differentiation, which there normally must be, in any medical
application or procedure, of the differences between different cohorts of people who are
certain to respond differently to the vaccine, some of which it must be contraindicated for.
Apparently, there's no one it's really contraindicated for, or nearly no one,
so that's ridiculous, and dangerous, and not scientific, and not proper medicine.
Again, the precedents problem, right? We have the idealization. The idealization is the vaccine is
safe and effective. Then we have the actual situation. Well, for each person, it may not be
safe, and it's going to be veryingly effective. Though it is apparently true that for nearly
everyone, those people who've been vaccinated and then caught COVID had vastly less severe responses
to the disease than they might otherwise have had. However, since, again, there's a continuum
from nearly no effect on this side to lethal effect on this side, and that continuum is
going to be applied to everyone, whether or not they are vaccinated.
There are certain people for whom the risks of vaccination outweigh the benefits, because
we would not know if those people would catch COVID and be asymptomatic and have no
significant lasting or even momentary effects. So, it's a weird problem, right? It's a problem
of where we put the precedents, and it's a problem of idealization versus actual significant
idealization versus
local circumstances. Circumstances local to individuals in specific cohorts.
We have noticed, for example, that there are some cohorts that really don't appear to be suffering
dramatic infection rates. Africa is one of them. It's confusing. We don't know why.
But clearly, and there are other cases where everybody got terribly sick,
and this is the difference between idealizations and what's actually going on in the world,
right? It's the difference between the idea of orientation and the behavior of orienteering,
right? So, I had lots of different ideas about what to talk about today,
but before I began my video, and I wanted to make one, so I'm giving up some meditation time
this afternoon to make my video instead. I was talking with my friend Jesse,
and she was telling me that she'd gotten a book
that she'd been looking for for a long time because she was very interested in it, and like me,
Jesse has an interest in eccentric or exotic books, and some ancient books, too,
and apparently there's this old Greek manual of dream interpretation
called the Oniracritica, if I've got that right, which literally means
dream analysis, right? Oniro is a word particle that refers to dreaming,
so the Oniric cycle is the cycle in our day when our body expects to be dreaming,
and an Oniranaut is a dream traveler, and of course, critica probably means something like
analysis or judgment. In any case, like many ancient books of its kind, the Oniracritica
is completely useless. It's simply a litany of, if you dream about this, it means that.
A dream of a toad means you will find a tasty peach later that day on a tree,
or whatever, however it works out, right? Now, of course, it's impossible that these
these dictionaries of correspondences
are useful, and this is why dream dictionaries are mostly garbage,
because they have idealized the symbolism of dreaming.
When, to understand the language of symbolism and dreams, you have to include the context of
the person, their history, what's recently been going on with them, your insight about their psyche
and their character and so on, and all kinds of things, and one can learn to interpret the
language of dreams with some degree of useful efficacy or, again, a degree, right? Accuracy,
but the waking mind is famously incapable of understanding the nature of the dreaming experience.
In fact, it's almost directly opposed to it. It's diametrically opposed largely, and particularly
verbal and conceptual thought are not like what happens in dreaming. So, when the waking mind
gets a hold of a description of a dream, which has already been processed by the waking mind,
or we'd not be getting a description, right? Because a dream is not a description in the
same way a kiss is not a description. I challenge you to describe a kiss, right? You're going to
capture nearly nothing of that experience, or describe the experience of eating delicious food
or terrible food, right? You know, you can encompass a little portion of the experience,
but you can't communicate the flavors very well. Even the relatively sophisticated language
of wine tasting is still nothing like tasting wine, right? You know, the tail and the this
and the that, the foretaste, aftertaste, whatever. Nothing like the actual experience of tasting
the wine. You can't eat descriptions, right? You can't taste or kiss words. So,
it is however possible to develop the extremely nuanced and profound skill of interpreting someone's
dream, though it requires all kinds of little subskills that have nothing to do with normalization.
And these little dictionaries of correspondences that were produced and have been produced and are
still produced for thousands of years, they tell us something not so much about dreaming,
but about the left hemisphere or the verbal conceptual mind or
the problem of representational cognition, where literally we become confused between the
facticity of a statement and the facticity of direct experience. These two truth values
get collapsed into one, right? So that now, because I have written, if you dream of a frog,
you will find a valuable coin soon, right? Because I have written this, and it is certainly true
that I have formed or emitted these words,
that becomes confused with the factual truth
of the prediction.
So the truth, and this is a problem we've seen in
in government and in science and medicine and all kinds of things, although less so
in any science we're testing, and the reproduction of results is important.
But yes, our last president apparently just believed that because he said something,
it therefore must be true. And this is what's going on. What we see in these
dictionaries of correspondences are the beginnings in the continuum of the development
of representational cognition. There are landmarks, right? There are milestones.
And the onset of the capacity to produce these compendiums of correspondences
is portents, right? If the antelope turns left in the setting sun, hunting will be good tomorrow.
If the mouse is timid, your enemies will flee, right? These correspondences
demonstrate something about the strange continuum of the onset of, or the intensification of,
the power of representational cognition over other faculties that more or less resemble dreaming.
And it's very clear that our ancient ancestors, our very ancient ancestors,
were, they were capable of predicting and they were capable of having somewhat formalized thought.
But primarily they were dreaming. They were dreaming while awake. And over time,
you know, our species ran face first into a brick wall of the possibilities of representational
cognition as embodied in linguistic vocalization first and writing later. And that wall has been
grinding us into hamburger for thousands of years and the world along with it. And if we don't discover
and realize the problems of these issues, we will kill everything. Everything on earth will die.
And people say, oh, no, the humans aren't a big deal. They're wrong. They're dead wrong about
that idea, right? Well, the earth will survive. They don't fucking know that. This is again,
the linguistic fucking mind making up bullshit statements and thinking because it can say things,
they must be true, right? The earth is very fucking delicate. It's delicate enough that literally,
and I saw this coming 30 years ago, a single human being, one person can formulate a threat
significant enough to obliterate life on earth and can table that threat against the entire world
or simply enact it. And I know this because with the technologies that exist today, like,
that was never possible, say, 500 years ago, very unlikely to have been possible 300 years ago,
not so likely 100 years ago. As of about 50 years ago, it began to become possible.
Within the past 20 years, it's fully possible. And the onset of specific technologies,
which I'll not hear name, makes it not only possible, but likely in the modern time.
And by the way, there are aspects of representational cognition
that not only, okay, how to put this, part of the reason this is so dangerous,
let me come back to that danger in a moment. I'll just put a bookmark in the danger.
These little booklets of, you know, if you dream this, it means that will happen and so on, or
portents or similar kinds of things. These are the symptoms of the growing dominant,
the growing dominance of representational cognition as enacted in language and writing.
And there are hallmarks that you can see occurring if you look back in history. And one of the first
people that I've ever encountered who remarked on this was Julian Jaynes in his dare I say seminal
work, which contains many mistakes, but is nonetheless absolutely brilliantly imperative
and urgent. The origin of consciousness in the breakdown of the bicameral mind, he was on to
something really provocative and profound about the evolution of human consciousness. And there
are not many books about this. I think another one is The Discovery of the Mind by Bruno Snell.
There are one or two others that don't immediately come to mind, but
yeah, I'll not chase the author names at the moment. So the emergence of Bibles, skybooks,
books that tell you what everything is and what it is for and what will happen if you believe
this book and what will happen if you don't believe this book. That's another one of the
hallmarks that we're still suffering the catastrophic after effects of the emergence and the promulgation
of such books. These books are diseases. I'm not saying there are no holy beings
or that there's nothing metaphysical about human life. I'm saying that books that declare
what you must believe about such matters in incredibly crude ways that will destroy whole
civilizations are poisonous. They're deadly. In fact, one could argue that nothing other than
science and technology in the past hundred years, which we should look very carefully at,
has equaled the destructive power of these books. They have ruined lives and minds and hearts,
civilizations for thousands of years and will continue to do so far into the future.
And there are various other kinds of books that are just as deadly. So
in Snow Crash, there was the the science fiction novel Snow Crash by Neil Stephenson, I think.
There was the idea of a terrible book called a Nam Shub that obliterated
the whole, like, was deadly enough that anyone who saw it would be destroyed.
I actually don't know the story of the Nam Shub very clearly. There was another book very recently
that was really good. I don't know if I can recall the title of it, though, or the author.
In this book, a cult used psychography to figure out
how to control individual people, how to perfectly control them with language,
and one particularly unusual young woman.
I know who this belongs to. One unusual young woman
is resistant to, is capable of resisting this force, but
develops not just a word so much, but an idea and certain capacities in language
that cause humans to go insane and just kill everything around each other.
And it spreads contagiously. I think the I think the name of the book is Lexicon.
Yeah. And it was an interesting science fiction novel.
But very profoundly important in the age of psychography, social media, Facebook, Twitter,
Instagram, and so on, where we're being literally psychographized electronically on purpose
by corporations that intend to dominate and market to and otherwise manipulate us.
I did. Is it yours? I was looking for who it belongs to. I thought it might be my friend.
Oh, I'm so sorry. Well, if I see the other one, I'll find you. Okay. Well, if I see it,
I'll, I'll pick it up and find you. My name is Darren. Nice to meet you, Chan.
I'm glad that I was able to return your glove to you.
Yeah. No, I'm still talking to you. So nice to meet you, though. Okay. If I find it, I'll come get you.
It's so wonderful to have a joyful moment with another human being and so refreshing and so
different from this rather didactic, you know, lecture that I've been giving.
All right, the danger. I have to reorganize my thoughts now because
it's complicated.
Actually, what just happened is the kind of mind that I was embodying and enacting
is radically different from the form of mind that immediately replaced it when I began to
relate with directly with another human being, especially with a sense of kindness and joy.
That's nothing like the mind with which I lecture or with which I explore ideas.
Okay, now I've just found her other glove. So this is going to be even more distracting.
Now, hey, man, good to see you. And to you. Yeah, we'll talk soon.
No, I'm just making a video. I'm making a video, so I'll catch up with you.
That's my friend, Brian. He's really awesome. So again, you know, I have the same problem,
right? We think, oh, a mind is this kind of thing. No, it's not any kind of thing. A mind
depends on what we're doing with it. It's like having a hand, or it's like having many kinds
of hands, or even more like having many kinds of possible wings and many kinds of eyes within
those wings that see in different ways as those wings learn to fly. And so most of what a mind
can be, we will never experience in our modern existence. There's an old quote from Arthur C.
Clark that any form of sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic,
and there's some useful truth in that quote, though I'm not a big fan of tropes
and aphorisms. I write them sometimes. I just realize that they're dangerous. They're almost
immediately ironic. So I re-quoted him and said, any form of sufficiently advanced ignorance is
indistinguishable from modernity. Now, that's a very cynical thing to say. What I'm trying to get at
is we are born with the seeds of thousands of faculties, faculties that can in fact see into
the past and the future in ways that have nothing to do with logical thought. We can learn to be
telepathic. We can speak inside each other's minds. We can speak inside each other's souls.
We can explore other bodies. We can inhabit the bodies of animals and plants and living places.
All of these things and many thousands more are available to us, but our ideas and our idealizations
and the models and concepts to which we are subjected that we imagine to liberate us from
superstition are actually at the same time cripplingly prescriptive of
terrible impoverishments that we will live with most of our lives.
Hi, Shan. Here's your other glove. I'm so happy to be able to return it to you and it's wonderful
to meet you. Have a wonderful new year. I hope perhaps I'll see you again sometime.
Okay, bye-bye for now.
She's awesome.
So that's funny. I wonder which hand I brought her first. The left or the right, it matters.
Yeah, sidedness in humans is very important, but actually
nearly all organisms are bilaterally symmetrical and the two sides differ in their way of being in
the world. And this is the important thing or not the, but this is a very important thing to
