And where we don't get attention we will tend to invest less.
So why do we like that attention? What's up with that desire for attention?
And of course there are simple obvious answers like we are social animals, we thrive in this kind of environment.
But there are also more subtle and nuanced features of our need for attention that are quite surprising to discover and encounter when we finally learn how to see them.
In order to do this we have to be able to pay attention and slow down when we would ordinarily be kind of hitchhiking on something, right?
I'm walking down the street, I smell the food, the food makes me hungry, I go in the restaurant, oh there's a pretty girl, I notice her.
I may walk a different path because there's someone or something beautiful in some part of my path so I'm hitchhiking on that beauty, that interest.
And where the natural and healthy urges begin to be replaced by the sort of slavish urges of consumers and we lose faculties and relationships so that we get pre-packaged experiences and transactions.
Instead then we can feel the loss of dimensionality there and notice, ah, this is where my attention is being captured, this is how it is being captured.
And it's being captured for the benefit not of me or living beings but for the benefit of institutions, corporations, governments, religions, what we might think of as perihuman intelligence collectives, right?
They're not actually human even though they're made up of humans, they're intelligent in the sense that they know how to capture our desires and our lost faculties and our ache for fulfillment and deliver us some sort of hypostasis, right?
Some representation of that fulfillment that isn't actually healthy or fulfilling but builds a habit that can be repeated over time so that, you know, we will keep spending the ten dollars a day for the cigarettes or whatever it is we're, you know, we become.
Whatever it is we receive is a replacement for what we actually would truly desire if we felt it were reasonably available to us.
And then just the noticing that to recap, that we have these wings inside us but we don't die if they don't fill up and become flight worthy.
We just suffer, right? And this can be taken advantage of by these perihuman intelligence collectives, by institutions, by businesses, by governments, by religions, right?
The religions will actually claim to sell you your wings back, right? This is their big gambit. We are the guys who know how to get your wings and what will happen, how they got taken away and so on and so forth.
And there might be some small degree of truth in there in that mess but there's also a lot of lying and a lot of weaponized text and ideas and so on.
So these are some of the things that are on my mind today while I'm walking.
I just feel so grateful to have this day of my life to walk and learn and be with the living beings in the garden and be together with you in the world while we are all still alive, which I sometimes find extremely surprising.
So thank you for joining me. I look forward to learning again together very soon. Bye bye for now.
