Hello, everybody. Welcome.
I thought on today's walk I would go ahead and turn the video on so you could see that I'm still having a face.
It's a pretty beautiful day, or it's turned into one here in the gardens.
And some of my animal friends are here.
And not all of the animals are entirely friendly with me.
The Cooper's Hawk couple, who I've known for many years.
They have decided that something about me is problematical, and I have a pretty good idea what it is.
Mostly it's that I pay too much attention to the birds, and most of the other human beings don't pay that much attention.
Or even if they do, they're not here every day the way I am.
So I've had some interesting adventures with that couple over the past week or so.
And things seem to be calming down now.
Hopefully they continue to.
Let's see how this goes.
Not too bad.
Not too bad.
Life in all of its varied presentations and forms.
It's very complex. It's not merely beautiful.
Nor is it merely competition.
There are all kinds of different features and moments of life in the music of being.
And some of them are terrifying or tragic.
Some of them seem cruel and unnecessary.
But the idea of necessity is kind of a confusing idea.
What actually takes place, which we can never completely know, is the truth.
Not our ideas of what it's supposed to be or what we would prefer.
What we might prefer, what could have been.
No, what actually happens is the truth.
And what actually happens can never be completely known because our perspective.
Usually it is very, it has a unique and strange relationship with time.
It doesn't allow us to see very deeply into histories.
And it doesn't allow us to see very deeply into futures.
And so we cannot truly understand the meaning of an event.
In fact, to have an event at all, we first have to distinguish an event from the great flow of being.
And how we go about distinguishing an event decides for us what kind of an event we experience.
So I've often talked about this.
It's our purpose in perspective that determines what we see.
It's our purpose in perspective that determines what we see.
It's our purpose in perspective that determines what we see.
It's our purpose in perspective that determines what we see.
It's our purpose in perspective that determines what we see.
This is one of my friends.
We don't usually acquire much volition.
About this perspective, the purpose that determines our perspective
and also pre-selects the kinds of experiences or derivations we might make.
Usually we're busy seeing with the purpose
and so we cannot direct our attention into looking at the purpose.
We're using it to see with.
Ordinarily, our own underlying purpose of origins of our derivations and our attention are invisible to us.
Sometimes they become visible.
And there are practices we can engage in that will bring them into visibility,
allowing us to see before we decide what we are seeing, allowing us to see what we see with to a degree.
And to differing degrees depending on the depth of our available attention, awareness, practice, history, habits and so on.
It's a very surprising thing to suddenly be able to see
not what we ordinarily see, but into the process of seeing itself.
And particularly it's surprising when we can see there are purposes driving my seeing.
Without these purposes I would have no desire to see.
I would have no affinities.
So nothing would attract my attention and nor would I have the opposite of affinities, revulsion.
Nothing would push my attention away from it.
But underneath our ordinary awareness there's a network of purpose of aspects that have been being both developed and inhibited since we've been children.
And they've been imprinted with various agendas and imperatives of our sociocultural milieu, our linguistic milieu,
the cohorts within our social or political culture to which we are exposed,
either ephemeraly through the news and media and so on or directly through people that we know or love or who may care for us or who may be our enemies and so on.
So all throughout life there's this constant process of being imprinted.
And in this sense the the originary purpose of manifold of our being collapses in various ways, becomes flattened in various ways and expands in other ways.
Some of which are helpful in specific domains of our human experience and existence.
So for example we don't, we're not born understanding money, right?
Money is a construct.
We're not born understanding the imprinting of the necessity of doing various kinds of accounting.
Accounting for kindness done to us or accounting for injustice done to us or accounting for is something fair or unfair,
even though it may be that we are born or at least we develop relatively soon after our birth.
Some intuitive sense of values, right?
But they're not explicit and they're not representational until we get this imprinting from our culture and from our language and from observing the behavior, expectations, disappointments, celebrations and frustrations of the people around us.
In my view it's very important to be able to get a glimpse of the purpose of milieu that underlies our awareness and directs our awareness.
If we have some kind of an addiction, if we like to eat a lot of food all the time or if we smoke cigarettes or if we smoke weed or if we're addicted to heroin or if we're addicted to alcohol or if we're addicted to cutting our skin or throwing up our food,
then this kind of thing, this addictive behavior, it's easier a little bit to see the purpose of underpinnings as they arise because they tend to rise on a specific timeline over and over again.
So that for example the person who smokes cigarettes, about every 15 or 20 minutes they will get depending on their habit, the urge will arise, they will imagine themselves smoking a cigarette,
they will go to get the cigarette, they will light the cigarette, they will smoke the cigarette, they will put it out and so on.
But in the beginning when one first has the imagining of doing the thing, whatever the thing is, that's where you can sense the purpose of element of awareness arising into form, it is forming around a specific habit.
And of course we can become, so that we don't usually use the same word, we can become addicted to things that are healthy for us,
like getting exercise at a certain time or waking up at a certain time in the morning or eating a healthy meal that we know is enjoyable and good for us,
or meditating, or getting together with friends to play and learn and enjoy one another.
We can have these kinds of addictions too and they're not necessarily unhealthy, they also have a purpose of substrate.
It's really fun to play Dungeons & Dragons and get to act out the role of a ranger or cleric or a wizard in a milieu where we are all playing together and having like a dreaming like experience while we are awake,
where we get to play a role in an ongoing story.
And in fact in my late teens I found that very addictive and it seemed a positive thing.
It was more interesting than drugs and until I discovered that I hadn't found anything more interesting than drugs much.
So you know there's like, for most of us there's a kind of a timetable in our lives that we follow so that we emphasize
and become engaged with certain purposes at certain times on certain days.
If we have a work schedule for example, then each day or on the days that we work that work schedule gets imprinted.
Our body follows it, our sleep patterns hopefully hitchhike on it and so forth.
And on the same the same is true of days on which we don't work.
We might develop a certain set of habits that we walk through on the days when we are not obligated to spend time doing something else.
Now of course sometimes work and pleasure come together in the sense that we have a job that's so enjoyable that we look forward to working
and we can be creative in our working and it's pleasurable.
And still there is a kind of schedule underneath that, right?
There's a rhythm, there's a pace.
There are the natural sort of peaks and valleys of the frequencies of what we do in our lives and how we do things.
Perhaps it is true that for many of us, for much of the time, most of these things we are not aware of them.
We don't realize, for example, how significant our bodies and our minds capacity to hitchhike on schedules is.
And this has taken advantage of our vulnerability to this, our natural inclination toward this schedule hitchhiking behavior.
It has taken advantage of in all kinds of ways in our culture and society, in the military, in our jobs, in our schools, all of these things.
Except that rather than sort of being able to naturally develop healthy rhythms and behaviors and roles,
we're given representations of meaningful rhythms and behaviors and roles.
And then we're paid or not paid according to our capacity to fulfill these somehow.
And this is really pretty bizarre, it's mostly unfortunate, though it's not merely unfortunate.
And I think we would be very surprised if we had some glimpse at how much of our life as human beings is engaged in this kind of hitchhiking behavior.
Because it's truly fundamental to all of life.
Just about everything alive hitchhikes on heat gradients.
It's a little warmer here, there's more life over there, it's a little cooler there.
Life is slower to recur and cycle there where it's colder.
I've often wondered, I mean, as we walk down the street certain things attract our attention and other things we feel neutral toward and other things we don't want to look at.
And so really as we're walking down the street even as I'm walking here in the garden, I'm experiencing something like this.
I'm hitchhiking on colors and movements and features of the living place that interest me.
I'm ignoring those features that I am unused to or habitually ignore.
And I am repulsed by those things that I don't want really to see, though there aren't a whole bunch of those.
I might be a little nervous if I came across a yellow jacket nest, for example.
I wouldn't want to not see it, but I would want to be very careful about it.
And perhaps I am not particularly happy if I see that one of the plants has been crushed or destroyed, or something has been killed, or something is dying.
But even that can attract my attention, yesterday I found a newly emerged pipevine swallowtail butterfly.
And unfortunately this butterfly emerged in the wrong time, and so it could not fill its wings.
In time to make it into the air.
And I moved it from the cool place that I found it to a warmer place in the hopes that that might help it fill its wings, but it didn't happen.
And here is the remains of the butterfly, which is now food for ants.
Now this is a tragic thing because I cared about the butterfly, and I wanted to help it.
But I also knew that I don't have god-like powers yet, I can't make the butterfly live.
And the timing of the situation was difficult, because the sun had already been hidden by the fog.
And without that sunlight, the butterfly is going to have a hard time filling its wings.
And it struck me that, you know, we are like this butterfly, ourselves.
We have different kinds of wings inside us, for different kinds of capacities and faculties.
And some of these wings, they have to be filled in a certain life phase, or they become unfillable.
So they just remain shriveled up or folded up.
And unlike the butterfly who will die if it cannot inflate its wings, most of us will survive,
even if we cannot inflate some of the types of wings, or faculties, ways of flying in understanding,
or relation, or learning, or skillfulness, or awareness, that are natural to our humanity.
We have many kinds of wings inside us when we are born, but only few of them will ever get inflated.
And unlike the butterfly, we don't die if the wings aren't inflated.
We just suffer, right?
We're just deprived of aspects of our being that we might sense somehow in an incoate, blind-like way.
We sense, oh, I'm supposed to be able to do this thing that I don't even know what it is, but I know I'm supposed to be able to do it.
And we will live like this if we cannot inflate the wings inside us, so that they become tenable for flight.
And all of us are like this.
And all of us have some wings we weren't able to inflate, or that were directly inhibited by our culture, or were even amputated by our culture,
particularly in a culture where transactions and representations are exchanged or imposed on us in lieu of faculties and relationships.
And unless we live in a culture that's very enlightened, unless we can form a culture that's very enlightened,
we can't do anything about this much.
We can go to therapists and we can try and form meaningful relationships and meaningful social cohorts and perhaps meaningful roles.
And some of us will succeed to varying degrees at this.
But when the context is constantly dragging everyone down deeper and deeper away from our sensitivities,
our faculties, our intelligences toward a kind of slavish aching need for replacements for that which we've been deprived of.
And this is a constant war, extremely busy.
The whole culture is pressing in this one dimension, one direction all the time.
Yeah, it's very difficult for individual people or even small cohorts to evade that pressure and establish something we can all hitchhike on
that leads us back into the emergence and development and fulfillment of our natural intelligences, abilities, faculties, dreams, hopes,
the nature of our essence, the nature of our souls as human beings, and as animals and as beings in general, as instances of the universe.
And so most of us suffer throughout large portions of our life, if not all of our life.
We suffer very confusing deprivations and the addictions that arise or have been invented to capture the pain
of living without our essence, without our soul, without the many wings inside us that we've been unable to either
to bring to life, to fill with our essence in such a way that they can lift us and we can fly with them.
The wings inside us that remain folded or shriveled or were in fact amputated at some point in our lives.
And there are many, many such wings inside our humanity.
We're like a flower with a thousand different petals.
And some of these wings are ways of seeing and some of them are ways of maintaining deep awareness and sensitivity,
co-being with other organisms and other human beings.
Some of them might appear supernatural, they have the capacity to touch other minds, to know other minds directly,
to be known directly by other minds, to see into time in various ways, not just one or two, a thousand different ways.
We have many, many faculties that are natural to our humanity.
But if our wings don't get nourished in the right time of life when they need to acquire their structure
and become part of the symphony of our lives, in other words, that we use them in our day-to-day lives and we experience them and we become aware of them,
well then we experience a terrifying poverty and that poverty may last our entire lives if we're not very lucky.
Sometimes someone comes along who can inflate the wings of others or can help them who can help them reawaken those lost wings
or get them working at least a little bit again.
And you know a wing isn't the only metaphor but I like it, I like it because our faculties, especially our creative and relational faculties,
they're like ways of flying and they're like ways of flying that are also ways of seeing, right, so they're like wings with eyes in them.
And in case you haven't noticed this, many of the wings of insects and so on, they have eyes on them.
It's not an accident and you know the biologists will say well they're just trying to emulate a larger animal to keep from being preyed upon.
Yes, yes, it's not untrue, neither is that the entire truth. There's something more going on there as well.
This whole wings and eyes thing is very deep and old.
And in fact you know the idea that we're human is a kind of confusing idea because it's, although it's provisionally true and concretely true
while we're walking around in a human body so to speak, it's not completely true in the sense that whatever it means to be human,
a whole bunch of whatever that is isn't human and never was and never will be.
Almost as if being human is a localization of many astonishing and unimaginable relationships between beings we don't even have stories about
throughout all of time and space in dreaming, in physical reality, above physical reality, beneath physical reality.
It's a grub.
It's beautiful. Perhaps one day it will have wings. Could be a beetle grub or possibly a moth grub.
So it turns out that to be human is to be many other things, the same way trying to think of a good analogy.
I don't want to use a mechanical one.
So you know I have a hand but if my mind, which is not entirely a physical thing in my view, if my mind is gone my hand has no use.
And being human is a bit like this. If all of the astonishing, exotic, beautiful histories and relationships and intelligences that participate in our humanity,
if those disappear our humanity becomes uninteresting at best, if not just vegetative.
And not that vegetables are bad but you know human beings we want to have the many liberties that we're capable of embodying and developing.
So there's a few points I want to make kind of simply.
One is it's very valuable to practice acquiring the ability to see one's purposes before one uses them to see with or before one acts on them.
And this requires pausing as the urge to act or speak arises. One right there pauses.
Why do I want to say this right now? What is moving me to say this? What is moving me to desire this?
And what is underneath that desire that is moving me? Is there a purpose there? Is it a habit? Is it a habit that was born of a previous purpose?
We can ask these questions not just in our thinking minds but in the core of our being.
And over time we will develop the wings that we had lost or never developed that allow us to see into purpose.
The purposes that underlie our habits, behaviors, our narratives, our stories about ourselves and our lives and other people in the world, all of these things have purpose of underpinnings.
And then to also notice how we hitchhike on things, right? We hitchhike on habits, we hitchhike on sun, the sun, the time, we hitchhike on times, on schedules.
We hitchhike on each other's attentions, right? When we get attention we will tend to invest more of our interest, concern and work.
