from the world, but I don't know the nature and essence
and interiority and presence of the referent,
unless I enter into participation with it in some way,
directly, unless I enter into relation with it.
And of course, there are a few fascinating forms of entering.
One is adoration and reverence and honor and respect.
One is fascination, deep curiosity and open-mindedness
so that I can discover things about the tree in relation with it
that completely go against everything I was scripted to think about trees,
which by the way was not much.
And even had I become a biologist or an arborist,
then still I would have approached the tree
from a set perspective of a vocation.
So I would have acquired the vocations.
I would have absorbed some many connotations and denotations
about the tree and how to tell a healthy tree from an unhealthy one
and what can be done to help a sick tree
and how to prune trees and perhaps even how to do exotic kinds of pruning.
And I have a friend who is an arborist.
But when I come at the tree from outside human culture completely,
when I just drop everything that human culture has taught me
and go to the tree with adoration and reverence,
with love and fascination and respect,
then I begin to have the possibility of understanding a tree
and trees themselves and plants.
And so it is with animals.
And so it is with humans and culture and society, even with language.
Part of how I learn best is by dropping what I've learned before first,
starting from a position of fascinated mystery and proceeding along.
So this is a practice we can all play with.
We can play with dropping everything I've learned and know.
I'll keep the word tree but I'll forget all the connotations
and I'll find a way to relate with the tree so that we can be together in the world
and if the tree can teach me things, she will.
And if the sky can teach me things, she will.
But I don't think of whatever is up there as space
except in a very small part of my referential mind.
What's up there is mystery.
Be unknown.
The fact that we have names for the lights in the sky does not impress me.
No one knows why there are lights in the sky or a sky
or why there are minds to wonder.
Maybe not no one.
Very few people have any kind of intelligent situation with that.
So we can practice unknowing.
And that, if we practice unknowing, we will learn what our primary connotation trees are
and our denotation trees for the identities that language discerns for us.
And I promise you if you can get just a slightly better idea of what the sun is
all of your other ideas will change.
In one very real sense, the sun, there is nothing else here.
This is all the sun.
Language is the sun.
The cars are the sun.
The humans are the sun.
Matter is the sun.
Around here the sun is primordial in its capacity to originate.
But the sun is also in our ideas.
You can't really know what the world is if you don't know what the sun is.
You can't really know what a vegetable is if you don't know what the sun is.
Right now I see the crescent moon in its setting.
The same is true of the moon.
If you learn more intelligently, not to know completely, but to get good clues and hints
about what dreaming is, you will begin to better understand what having a mind is about.
So there are key things like the sun and dreaming and a friend and food.
Your hand, your eye, these things, terrifying mysteries, infinitely deep.
No one will ever discover the completeness of what they are.
But if we can get a slightly better idea than the ones we're being served in our culture,
our intelligence will grow and our imagination will flourish.
And this is a profound thing to experience, even if it's a little bit dangerous.
So I have a couple of ideas on my mind.
They come from insights I have on walking with my son the other night.
And I'm going to try to state them fairly simply.
The first is that we are enculturated to believe that it is reasonable to suppose
that an individual human is endowed with the necessary insight and intelligence,
the necessary equanimity and balance to make all their decisions by themselves.
That's what the idea of an individual is.
And our country is dying of this idea right now.
And many countries are dying of this idea.
And humans have been dying of this idea for a good thousand years, if not long before that.
But in the last 50, they've been dying of this idea with vastly greater frequency and severity.
We do not have a society.
We have a cluster of often extremely opinionated, often very poorly educated or narrowly educated individuals
and little tiny groups, and they fight with each other all the time.
So the insight that I had was, when did it start to become a thing for individuals to make complex decisions alone?
Because as we understand it, for nearly all of our evolutionary history,
we made decisions together in small, very tightly knit groups that had effectively noble purposes,
at least noble at the group level.
And some of them were extremely important, they were life and death decisions.
And they weren't made by one person.
And the person who's injured didn't make all the decisions for themselves.
They came to their group and they made decisions together.
So when did it become a good idea for individuals to believe and act
as though they were perfectly capable of making their own decisions?
By themselves, in matters so complex that even a table of carefully assembled specialists
would struggle with the actual degree of ambiguity in any situation.
Any complex situation.
Right now, what's left of our society can't make sense of very simple things.
There's no chance of people making sense of complex things by themselves.
And if they can't make sense of them, they will kill themselves and each other.
And the world, in all the ways they failed to make sense and make decisions together
within for each other and for the history and future of all beings.
But the simple insight was simple.
Where did we get the idea that a single human being is capably endowed
to decide incredibly complex matters and why are we stuck in a situation
or a vast constellation of them in which this is most of what's going on
and it's failing miserably and everybody's pointing fingers
at pretty much anything that they can point at.
So that was the first insight and it's a question.
But it's also fascinating to me because I never wondered the specific question before.
I never really sat down and thought about, you know,
if I have a complex situation even if it's one that I'm an expert in,
I'd certainly rather have three other experts by my side to walk through it with me
even if I'm really good at it and that's a very narrow thing.
There are a few things I'm really good at.
I'd love to have some experts by my side on those things.
When we do Tai Chi in the morning, we learn together.
We need each other to learn this way.
We can't learn this way alone.
So we certainly can't practice that way alone.
We need each other's bodies.
We have to put hands on one another, move things around,
test things out, try new things together
in an attempt to solve the great mystery of what is Tai Chi.
Often the humans look to me like, I don't know,
one of the metaphors I have is
a bunch of single wings flapping around on the ground
talking feverishly about flight
but never putting two of them together and making a bird
and going into the sky together with and for each other.
Because when we come together,
we acquire whole new ways of understanding possibility,
potential, threat, risk, reality, goals,
urgent imperatives deep within us,
we begin to remember what it is to be human only when we come together.
A bunch of single wings flapping around on the ground is a nightmare.
It's a bad science fiction story.
And yet that is the one in which many of us live
and to which nearly all of us are subjected, some far more than others.
So the second insight,
I'm just trying to get through this without taking too long,
was that there are peculiar aspects of the left hemisphere
that under stress produce something that resembles psychosis
or schizophrenia, even though both of those things are poorly defined.
And I'm pretty sure it's the conceptual mind, the narratological mind,
the linguistic mind, the mind that makes maps of things and descriptions
that becomes thus compelled.
And the problem is that the nature of existence is extremely ambiguous.
We walk through our lives like people following stones across a river
and we use the familiar stones only.
Eventually we become stuck and that we're only capable of using
the stones we already know to cross a river in consciousness
or understand meaning or possibility.
Our life path, identity, the nature of our minds,
the nature of our lives as beings, as organisms, as animals, as humans,
as individuals.
So there's an aspect that I'm fairly sure is, you know,
left hemispherically inclined or amplified or triggered,
where when we're faced with ambiguity and the unknown,
this becomes, for most of us, very troubling very quickly.
If we're in a complex situation and we can't figure out what's going to, quote,
what's going to happen, there's a certain kind of agitation that arises.
If the ambiguity gets extended, I could give examples,
say someone gets cancer and they can't tell whether they're going to live or die.
So that's a pretty extreme example.
We could take the example of a little while ago my smartphone froze
and I wondered, is it broken?
And I didn't know.
And I couldn't shut it down.
So I couldn't tell if it was broken or not.
And I felt very concerned about that.
I was very anxious and worried I need my smartphone in the situation I'm in at the moment.
So as I became more worried, my consciousness became more narrow.
And it became extremely narrow in terms of what it's capable of participating in,
thinking about doing, even in terms of trying to solve the problem,
as my anxiety level rose, my consciousness became narrower and narrower.
And I began to think about narratives.
Well, what if my phone is broken, blah, blah, blah, what if this happens?
What if that happens?
And I became very focused on that thinking.
And the problem with that is all of that thinking is very uncomfortable.
And so we have a tendency as humans and societies and groups of people and families and individuals.
We have this inclination that I think we're not aware of and it's quite profound to consider it.
There's an aspect of our mind that rises to dominance in certain kinds of situations,
particularly those that are stressful and have high ambiguity, many unknowns.
There's a kind of agitation that arises in that and that agitation funds a particular aspect of consciousness.
And that aspect is extremely immature and has a peculiar vulnerability, which is this.
In situations of high ambiguity, certain left hemispheric inspired faculties
will gladly force the situation into a disaster because a disaster is graspable.
If things have totally gone wrong, if I throw my phone into the lake because I think it's broken,
now I know I've collapsed the ambiguity.
There's no longer a question of whether I will repair my phone or not, or if it's broken or not,
or what's going on or any of that.
So we have this tendency, many of us, and it gets enacted in various ways, addiction is one of them,
to collapse ambiguity into a kind of disaster or crisis.
Or if we can't do that, we can collapse it into spectatorship.
I'll watch a movie, I'll play the video game, I'll mess with my phone, I'll look at Facebook, whatever.
That's a lesser form of collapse.
But the real insight I had was just that we are ambiguity adverse, generally speaking.
And when troubling ambiguity is preserved for any length of time and things become unknown
and the length of time it will remain unknown becomes unknown,
