So, I'm out for a walk at night.
It's not very windy.
It's a little chilly, hopefully.
There will not be too much mic noise.
But I did want to record a bit about
a couple of things that have been on my mind lately.
It's funny how we use that language on my mind
as if a mind is something like a table or a dish.
And then we have things on it.
Now, of course, we have all kinds of interesting
metaphors in English, in common English usage.
They're all over the place.
One of the funniest ones is, it's raining.
But what is it?
What is it that is raining?
I guess raining is so pervasive that really, perhaps,
what we mean is everything is raining.
It's all raining.
The whole thing is raining, except inside.
And there are a lot of other metaphors.
For example, the metaphor that a relationship is like a journey.
And some of these metaphors are confusing and don't work very well.
Many of them come from very old traditions
and even from other languages.
The metaphors are important because they influence
how we think about and participate with the world.
If I think my heart is a container, then I put things in it.
In English, a discussion is often seen
as a battle, an argument is a battle.
And it's important to remember the weird thing about metaphor.
Metaphor tells us what things are.
So it picks the categories and classes
that we associate with their identities,
including how they are distinguished from everything.
In other words, in what ways.
And also how they connect to or don't connect with other things.
And most of the way we use language is like a knife in English.
We use it to cut things apart.
And the cuts are pretty crude.
And the kind of cut we make in identity
to be able to distinguish a key or a flower or a tree or a wheel.
The cuts are very primitive.
They're sharp, angled, not very connective shapes.
And so in English, our view of identity or how we metify identity in our minds
and in our participation in the world in the things that we do and don't do
and the reasons we do and don't do,
all of these are deeply influenced by the metaphors in our language.
There are two common tropes, though there are many tropes in English.
And I'm more of a fan of rhetoric than I am an academic.
But if I say my heart is a rose, I am making a metaphor.
I don't say it's not a simile, right?
A simile is if I say my heart is like a rose, then I am saying some of the connotations
that belong in our language and tradition and our personal lives to a rose,
some of those connotations are transferred to my heart.
So it could be imagined that my heart is delicate or red or has soft petals
or a beautiful fragrance or grows on the end of a stem that has thorns
or is given in love as a gesture.
These are connotations, right?
These are the cuts that tell us what a rose is.
A rose is first not everything and then it is something
and then it is a plant that we think of that grows separately
and then it is a cultivar, we cultivate them.
And then it has these kinds of leaves and these kinds of stem branchings
and these kinds of flowers and these kinds of seasons
and then it is an ornamental plant.
This is the simple version of the cuts, right?
To get from everything to something, you have to make distinctions.
And those distinctions are like cuts.
So all the things we think of are like this.
They have in cognition a certain structure and each of our connotation trees
for each word is uniquely personal even if it contains shared elements
because Joe has had an experience of a rose that Tina has not had
or vice versa that made an impression on Joe or Tina
and so it remains connotated with the rose.
If I have been bitten by a dog, the dogs acquire the connotation
can bite me unexpectedly.
Though our connotation webs are very sophisticated
and have near neighbors and distant neighbors
just as solar systems do.
And the connotations that light up for us in any moment of conversation
are also influenced by who we're with, where we are in our life,
path, what's going on around us, the last seven things we saw
that we noticed or made an impression on us, all of these things
they transform how we relate with cognition.
The is word is a big problem for us
because once we have a word
then we become confused between description and identity
between reference and participation.
To refer to a tree is nothing like participating with the tree,
living in and as and with and for and around and in concert
and harmony and learning with the tree.
Most people don't even think of such a thing as plausible
and practice it.
And many people consider it to be impossible.
They just think trees are, well, you know,
what we all think trees are.
What we commonly think trees are.
A big plant, woody source of lumber, can burn it for fire.
And I tell you, those have nothing to do with what trees are.
So our connotation webs have been damaged by modernity,
the cultures we've grown up in, language,
we all undergo enculturation as children
and over the span of our lives, it's ongoing.
And then we also undergo in-languaging.
These are imprinting processes.
And they give us very specific arrays of tools,
but they also give us very specific arrays of handicaps.
Ancient languages are rich with tools.
Modern languages are rich with handicaps.
They are blunt, they are reductive, they're utilitarian.
The metaphor sets are extremely limited, limiting,
and non-participatory.
They're utilitarian.
This is what you do with that kind of thing,
which is unfortunate in something
it would be wonderful to be able to amend.
Perhaps we can amend it a little bit
by thinking about it and learning about it together.
So obviously, that topic, a concept in our referential mind,
it has a superficial kind of hard structure,
which is denotations.
A denotation is a definition, like you
might find in a dictionary.
What is a wheel?
And then you'll find, oh, somewhere between three
and 15 senses.
And each sense is its own definition.
So our denotations, we pretty much
know what we mean denotationally.
If I say I will go to the car and point at the car,
then we don't need much connotation.
Though connotation is involved, I
have associations with the idea of a car,
just as I do a tree, an animal, my foot.
And the connotations change, again,
depending on what I'm doing, the last few things I was exposed
to, that's one of the most surprising things.
Humans are sequence-based animals.
And so people can take advantage of this, actually.
Darren Brown's one of them.
What we've most recently been exposed to transforms
how we interpret what's going on right now
and how we are in the web of identity
and how we are in the difference between referring
to things so that they can be utilized and participating
with them or acquiring sensitive intimacy with them.
And obviously, I'm a big fan of the sensitive intimacy practice.
And I think it would be wonderful
if we could help each other learn to practice this again
together, at least more of the time than we usually do.
So yes, what we've recently been exposed to
affects how we interpret what we next see.
All of our interpretive faculties
are primed by sequences.
And most of the sequences are casual.
I walk down the street.
There's a stone rabbit here, someone's lawn.
There's a fire hydrant.
People's cars are parked around me.
I can see the stars.
But in our modern daily lives, we are being sequenced.
We're being particularly programmed.
Someone is controlling the sequence of denotations,
connotations, in a way that's almost
like the opposite of a dream, where instead of consciousness
exploring its capacity to invent worlds,
tiny little snippets of representational worlds
are presented in sequence via Twitter, Instagram, Facebook,
so on.
And this is a catastrophic development
for human cognition in general, for human intelligence,
and for our imaginations.
One, I think it wouldn't be wrong to compare it
to circumcising our consciousness or amputating
organs of our participatory imagination
and replacing them with tiny little limbic rewards
or punishment sequences that are highly addictive
but empty of meaning, which isn't to say that all online
communication is like that.
But rather, the vast majority is, and the most compelling
surface of it is, much like our language in English,
much like the terrible impoverishments
that most of us suffer.
Many of us suffer, nearly all of us suffer somewhat.
And we suffer it uniquely.
So I remember talking with a cab driver in San Francisco
once, and he was talking about the kids in the projects.
And he said, you know, many of these kids,
they have a 300-word vocabulary.
And I don't remember what he said was a reasonable vocabulary.
I would guess 8,000-plus words.
But imagine if you only have 300 words, with which to refer to
things but also with which to consider them.
In representational consciousness.
You see, I have in my own mind many unusual connotations
for a tree.
First of all, I admit that I don't know what a tree is.
That's where I start.
I know what the word points at, but I don't know.
In other words, I know what the word distinguishes
