we, many of us, will find ourselves, not consciously, almost compelled,
to collapse the situation into a graspable disaster, to wreck something, to cause a crisis.
Because once we have that, we can get a grasp on it and the ambiguity has been evicted.
Now I know that, you know, X is not going to become better.
Whereas will it become better or will it become worse? That's troubling.
It's much easier to grasp, this will not become better.
And so we have a tendency to, in disaster or trouble or ambiguity, make more disaster.
Make trouble, because we can grasp those things.
Break the ambience of the unknown.
Collapse the time, collapse how long things will remain unknown in all of these features
into a graspable crisis of some kind, even if it's a small crisis.
The phone's a pretty good example, I'm sure you can think of some yourself and I hope you will.
But just think about how when we're faced with actual mystery and the unknown,
you know, it's common for us either to opt out through intoxication or acting out
or just, if we can, make disastrous choices so that the thing collapses from ambiguity into a known disaster.
And I thought these two insights were fascinating and I'm still exploring them.
But first, that I don't think as animals we do very well making complex decisions as individuals.
Where did that whole idea come from?
And the second, under the stress of a lot of ambiguity or uncomfortable unknowns,
many of us will feel compelled to produce a crisis because at least we can grasp a crisis,
but we cannot grasp the unknown.
Of course, we can float in it and take it as it comes and realize, ah, I don't have control.
Therefore, I don't have to grip and grasp onto the fear of the unknown.
I don't have to produce a crisis, I don't have to grasp anything.
We can be gentle, we can loosen that sort of death grip of those tendencies in our consciousness
and just relax the hand of our mind around the situation.
Almost always this will turn out better.
Thank you for joining me for now.
I look forward to learning together again very soon.
I hope that your world is beautiful and filled with wonder and learning and dreams and growth and safety.
Bye-bye for now.
