Good morning everybody.
Probably going to have to do some mask foods.
There's lots of people around and I'm beginning the video.
In the more populated parts of the garden this morning.
I'm going to give you a little quick panorama.
Now if you can see the blue heron down on the little island in the pond.
There's some old dawn redwood.
The golden tree across the pond is a meta sequoia gliptostroboides in the Latinate taxonomy.
There's some cypresses and a number of old eucalyptus trees around here, old for eucalyptus anyway.
This is one of my, this is one of the most majestic trees in the garden.
I have a private name for it.
I have a number of things on my mind this morning.
Questions and inspirations and excitements.
Though I probably sound relatively calm.
There's a special kind of silence in the garden that changes at different times of day.
The quality of the silence.
What the silence transmits or delivers.
It's wonderful to hear the little, we call them snatches which is an interesting euphemism.
But little pieces of conversation.
Isn't it strange and beautiful how slight change of perspective from the point of view radically alters the near terrain.
And as things grow more distant, they are more stable from the point of view.
So that you can move the point of view and the distant things don't move much.
Now imagine for a moment the opposite situation.
A situation where the point of view, though embodied locally, moves its point of origin very far away.
And by the way, get your imaginations ready because we're going to be doing a lot of imagining today.
If I move my origin point from within my body too far away, then if I move my origin point, like let's say my wrist is the origin point,
I can move the wrist a little bit but the farther away thing moves a lot.
Comparatively to what's happening right there at the wrist.
Little movement nearby, huge movement far away.
So imagine if you could move your origin point one light year away.
And just move your perspective a millimeter.
How far would your origin point travel very far?
But if you moved it hundreds of light years away or thousands of light years away and you moved a millimeter here,
you might traverse the light year up there instantly, not in a year.
And this thing might seem a playful thought experiment.
And it's reasonable in our modern ways of thinking to dismiss it.
Say, well, you can't move your origin point light years away.
But who is saying you can't?
Stranger things than this are certainly true.
Things we've managed to learn through scientific inquiries.
Even though we as a species and as bodies of researchers only very slightly understand the principles and relationships that we study.
Partly because we kind of don't know the first thing.
We don't know the idea or the model that is true enough is truthful enough.
But all other models should inherit their qualities from it.
It's kind of like not knowing who your dad is.
We sort of don't know the meaning progenitor of the universe or progenitors, right?
Because I don't just have a dad, I have a mom.
And ancient peoples had to grapple, except I think that's the wrong word because we have to grapple.
They didn't really have to grapple.
They were in some ways more sensible in both senses of this word, right?
They were more sensible in that they couldn't be convinced of abstract nonsense.
Which this astonishing being here is a living refutation of, right?
I'm sure they're completely convinced by this tree.
Though it would be surprising to me if for them the tree inhabited primarily the class of objects, things.
Very unlikely because back then things were rare and beings were everywhere.
So things were something very clearly fashioned by persons.
And I think during the fashioning it was understood that an aspect of the essence of the person is transferred into the object.
And we can say, well that's mere superstition and in an age where machines make objects.
That seems very realistic to me.
That mostly matches our experience.
But everyone has an experience of having heard a song or seen a painting.
Particularly having heard a song in the presence of the one who makes it, or created it, invented it.
And similarly an original painting looking at the actual canvas that a painter transformed.
It would be very difficult to argue whether we believe in metaphysics or not, either way.
So there's nothing of the essence, the unique, momentarily existing yet, spanning over time, both things, essence of the creators.
And even in our tools.
The essence is there, but it's there at the class level rather than the instance level.
So, for example, if we take pliers, the essence of the engineers who invented and transformed the class over time is in there.
Individual pliers only, it is present in individual pliers, sort of only at the layer of structure, form.
So, when an ancient person made a pot or a vase, or a vase, as some others say,
they were merging two lines of development, right?
The class line, we make pots, there are pots, we have vases, and the instance.
And they could slightly transform both, right? A potter, right?
They could make their imprint also on the class, right? What kind of vase is this? What is its shape?
What features does it have? What features will I embody in it?
And then, like the painter in the decorative surface of the vase.
Again, the same thing, there's a traditional thread, right? And there's the personal contribution.
It's very beautiful and complex, this thing.
And it's a useful perspective to see that when we pay attention closely to something and we become deeply engaged,
we're not just engaging with ourselves or the clay in the term, in case of the potter,
but anciently conserved traditions are drawn in, and unique personal transformations and developments,
concerns and enchantments, right? Become involved as we craft the vase.
Open at one end, closed on the other.
A closed end sits on the side of gravity, right? The open end sits on the side of potential.
It's probably natural to think that what we put inside the vase doesn't transform it,
because to all outward appearances, it's still the same thing.
It still has the same designs on the outside, it's still in the same position, theoretically.
Same shape, same history, except not.
We might not be able to see what's inside it, but the union of the vase and the content is different,
whether we decide to admit this perspective or not. It seems to me.
The vase.
How much stranger is our language than our physical artifacts, right?
For this, these things that I'm reflecting on are all similar when we make language.
And there's all different kinds of ways and reasons to make it, all different kinds of purposes or ways of being in, making language.
But I remember thinking this morning, as I was walking along,
that there are ways in which our communications would improve dramatically
if we made very clear facial and body language and just emitted noises that were non-linguistic.
I was thinking, of course, there would be billions of ways of making non-linguistic noises.
But I was thinking, I think something in me anyway, and I won't speak for other people on an idea this seemingly strange,
would respond very well to that and feel nourished and recognized.
The non-verbal aspect of my being that is never captured in language, but language is constantly talking about it.
See, it's happening right now. I'm using language to talk about the aspects of my being that aren't really very,
let's say they don't feel recognized or enacted by language.
There's a red tail over there on the ground.
You see, we just witnessed something that's unrepresented.
Well, we're witnessing it in a video. I witnessed something that was unrepresented, though I was representing it by recording it.
The before of language, the feelings and imaginal connotations of seeing the bird, the bird flying, the little bird chasing it,
the other bird singing, foggy sky, living garden.
But I was thinking, our faces, they're unimaginably flexible.
They're wonderful transports for communication, recognition, play, discovery, wonder, awe.
I wouldn't want to get rid of our verbal languages, but I think they would transform if we had this other thing.
And of course, we have some other stuff, but there's a bunch of problems with it because we're sort of trapped in this very narrow,
thin layer of modernity that deprives us of just about, well, most of the really profoundly beautiful and useful opportunities of our humanity are,
at best, occluded, if not amputated or punished.
And when I say most, I really mean it. I'm talking 90% of what it means to be human is completely unavailable to nearly all of us most of the time.
It doesn't mean that it's inaccessible from our weird position within the layer of modernity.
It means that, like, it's always accessible in theory, but actually accessing it is really difficult from within the worldview of our modernity.
And so we may need some useful help, some assistance in getting outside of that thin layer of ideas, concepts, identity models,
what is this, what is that, what does this do, what does that do?
I think a long time ago, instead of what is this, what does that do, it was, who are these, what can we become together?
See how different that is? Like, first of all, instead of the megalomaniacal model where the humans or the human is a god manipulating objects at whim,
with no necessity of intimacy or relation other than with their, the task at hand, what a trope, the task at hand.
So instead of being sort of overpowered, you know, self-presumably magnificent, self-presumably advanced manipulators of things,
the relational space becomes one of being together, with and for each other.
And that's a pivot of worldviews, right? We are makers, we do the things, largely without concern about, usually after having defected from nature entirely, conceptually, right?
In other words, just seeing it as resources to make more things. For whatever whim we may entertain, many of them bizarre, omnicidal, insane, completely wrong-minded, too dangerous to contemplate, we are there.
The atomic bomb, too dangerous to contemplate, we are right there. Social networks, too dangerous to contemplate, we are on it, you know?
Governmental response to pandemics, known as, yeah, we are there, boom. Too dangerous to contemplate, and we're doing it.
We have a story about how living beings acquire and advance properties and qualities and functions over time.
We call it evolution. And there are aspects of it that seem to be concrete facts and are reasonably worth understanding as such.
But whether or not we project those facts over the whole field of concern is a very important question, and that's what usually happens.
We don't have any understanding of the fundamental basis, so we presume that the understanding we have is the fundamental basis, right?
We replace the unknown and its vast diversity and dimensionality with the known.
And this is one of the central nightmares of modern human thought, because as we replace that ambiguity, we depart from relation with the mysteries that invite us into actual relationship.
When we cut off all the mysteries, then relationship, we amputate them, becomes transactions.
And transactions, while superficially seemingly important and useful, and they're not unimportant, if they come to dominate the field, our essence becomes kind of husk-like.
There's no right out, there's no vitality in there, because there's no place for transfer in relation of essence.
Now, earlier I was asking you to imagine, and it's a really simple idea, that if I move my perspective many light years away, for example, let's just say I pick a random star in the sky and I look at it.
And then I simply move my gaze to another star in the sky.
Can you understand that the intervals traversed by my vision, if we place the point of origin at the objects in my vision, right?
Well, I'll call them, they aren't objects, actually, stars.
See, this is another problem. We place things in subclasses that belong in superclasses and stars are one of them, because without stars there are no classes.
There are no minds, no languages, no religions, no science.
So, that's not an ordinary thing, right?
Life forms in science and models of time and light and force only emerge as a bizarre side effect of there being a star nearby, right?
So, it's almost as if the star is expressing itself, and time-space is expressing itself, and the history of this particular little family of orbital objects is expressing itself in all of the forms and relationships and results of living beings on Earth.
And that's pretty astonishing.
We rarely stop to consider how profound, well, no, it's not even, see, this is part of why we don't consider it.
It's not a profound influence. The Sun doesn't have a profound influence on life. No Sun, no life.
Like, no Darren, no Darren's hand, right? It's that kind of relationship.
You might say, well, there are still other hands, sure, but there aren't this hand.
And this is the hand that I'm pretty intimately concerned with since it's mine.
Well, I am associated with it. Let's put it that way, deeply.
So, if I look at the star, and I just switch my vision to another star, you'll notice that, like, down here on Earth, my eyes are traversing an interval, right?
And down here, that interval is really tiny.
But what they're touching is very strange. If we draw a line from my eye to the first star, it could be, I don't know, hundreds of light years away.
And then, as I move my vision to the second star, two new variables emerge.
The distance from my eye to the first object changes, right? Because now I'm looking at the second object and that could have a completely different distance.
It could be vastly farther away or vastly closer to my eye.
But I also traverse the distance between those two stars.
And that distance is weird because it looks in the sky like they're associated, but we can't see the twist.
We can't see the turn, so we can't really tell, oh, that star is in a completely different direction from this star.
And there's a very complex manifold of distances traversed if I just make this move with my eye.
So we would say that distant things can touch our vision, but I think it's important to realize our vision can touch distant things.
We usually think a vision is fundamentally receptive.
I strongly suspect it cannot merely be this way.
So imagine that it's not.
Imagine that our vision touches.
It contacts in some way all that we see.
And so some aspect of us is traversing those distances, traveling.
There is a way to move the point of origin of perception.
There's more than one way.
And the results are very astonishing.
And moderns in general would not believe them unless they directly experienced them.
And even after directly experiencing them, they would be extremely puzzled because if they were to admit the results of such an experiment or experience,
they would destroy the foundations of everything else they have ever known about anything.
And the reason it would do that is that it would change the root meaning of identity in a way that has to do with travel, communion,
going apart and coming together, orbital relationships, watch a child and his mom or a dog and its owner.
There are weird principles that we can sort of fundamental principles of relation that are relatively obvious.
And the periodicity of orbital nearness to a relational companion is a blatantly obvious one.
How close do we orbit?
Do we go far away and then come back really close?
Do we stay really close?
Do we have an eccentric orbit where we come close then go far away?
Do the angles change in the orbit?
All of these things.
Our families or little orbit can be understood.
It's a beautiful frame.
It's a useful frame.
I'm not saying it is this way.
Yet, you look at the solar system.
I think there's something going on in dimensions we don't see.
I am aware from experience that our ordinary access to dimensionality, we have a flatland problem.
In the sense that there are what we would reasonably refer to as dimensions interacting with ours intimately moment to moment,
that we are connected with, that transform us and we transform them,
that are invisible to our thought because we don't have concepts about them yet.
And they're ordinarily invisible to our experience primarily because we're buried in nonsense.
They're not invisible to the experience of children though each child has a unique relationship with the great mystery of being
and all of the appearances within this great mystery and their histories and transformations.
Their behaviors, what they do.
