or techno-conceptually young, youthful, naive,
techno-conceptually naive.
This is not the same as conceptually naive.
They were not conceptually naive.
In fact, all the evidence points to the opposite.
They were conceptually, they were relationally conceptually,
rather than techno-conceptually,
they were relationally, conceptually very advanced.
And their languages were wildly different from English.
And I think they knew, many of them,
a simple idea where they conserved a fundamental principle
in their thought that we come from the sky.
And so there's one home for all beings,
one origin for all beings.
There's no way there's two.
It doesn't matter if you're rational or not.
You can be rational about it, there's no way there's two.
The spiders, one of the things they do is go fishing
with a strand of web, sometimes with a little kite
of some sort on the end,
a little piece of a leaf or a stick, right?
And they'll lower that down,
or they'll produce silk, what we call silk,
wonder what the spiders call it.
I'd love to know the answer to that question, actually.
Maybe each spider has a different idea, name for it,
or maybe, see this is the thing,
spiders probably don't call it something.
And yet, they have the precursors
to what we make language out of, I think.
And under the right conditions,
one could learn what a spider calls it
even though the spider is a non-linguistic organism.
This is the weirdness of our actual situation.
Rationally, this makes no sense.
So if you're rational, you can't do this.
It's not possible.
Or you're just making things up.
But there isn't anything but just making things up.
The speed of light is something we made up.
It's a measurement, but all the concepts
that surround it in the math and all that kind of thing,
we made that up.
And in fact, we made up the idea that it's a speed.
And I don't think it's a speed.
And as, you know, a guy from the sky,
down here really curious about everything
that's going on in physical reality, and I am,
I don't think light is traveling.
I don't know what it's doing,
but the idea of travel just doesn't seem the right thing to me.
It's somehow, it's got some really peculiar relationship with time.
And that relationship may be expressed in equals MC squared to a degree,
but that's not the only expression of that relationship.
So yeah, like from the perspective outside of humanity,
from the perspective outside the very narrow layer
of our modern conceptual thought,
for all of its abundant capacity to be informative
if we can relate with it intelligently,
that's the difficult part,
because it changes what we see with,
and so we start seeing like the tools we use.
We tend to, our computers and smartphones
change our minds to work more like our computers and smartphones,
rather than us changing our computers and smartphones
to work more like our minds
and not interfere with some of their crucial foundations,
as unfortunately our technologies tend to do.
Where they don't do something else, they're pretty much doing that.
I was wanting to talk some about temporalities,
but I'm probably not going to get there.
I've got at least two other things on my, on my plan.
So the first is just to talk briefly about the fact that our minds
and our bodies are these incredibly,
if you could compress the quality of intelligence
and then embody it at different scales, right?
The virus, the cell, the bacterium, the organ,
the circulatory system, the nervous system,
the muscle system, the fascia,
the sort of liquidy-connecting systems throughout the body
that science is just discovering
or just starting to think about, distinguishing.
It's layered.
And sort of way up near the top of that, you've got cognition, right?
It's like an emergent, we can think of it as an emergent property
of the complexities, the inconceivable,
the activity of a single cell is inconceivable over a second.
There's no way we could possibly track all of it, ever,
with all the computation.
Now, of course, it depends on the scale.
Well, can we track it all at the molecular level?
Conceivably, however, pretty difficult to have a clear simulation
of the structural transformations within the cell's interiority.
But my point is just that there are complexities so profound
that although we can learn things about,
we can learn to distinguish elements within them
and relationships and processes within them,
it's very difficult to get any kind of reasonable grasp on
the unity of the incredible profusion of relationships
that even is going on in a liver.
I mean, never mind, you know, a slug which we think of
and we say this in English, we often refer to animals and insects derisively,
like a mere ant.
It's so ridiculous because nature's so strange that
she uses something resembling compression in sizes of discrete organisms
and there's different levels of compression in different organisms
and different modes and compression of what?
History, lineage, intelligence, genes.
I'm sure genes are in there,
but they're not the only thing going on by a long shot.
It would be like thinking cars are what there are
and overlooking humans.
We see a lot of cars on Earth.
Earth is about cars.
It wouldn't be a difficult, you know,
they would think like the cars make these little meat things that run around
and make more cars.
And by the way, this is thinking like an alien.
This is what Feynman's father was partly encouraging,
although I think his father was a very sophisticated intelligence
to put it mildly,
and Feynman's intelligence,
because his father set the first rung of the ladder
above the narrow human thing, right,
and helped his son set it there.
Feynman was like a superhero among human beings
because he operated outside the conceptual foundations
that all of the other humans found ordinary, expectable, normal,
and so he was constantly able to just blow people's minds with some,
for him, usually either relatively simple or extremely clever trick.
He liked, in a way, he was a bit of a magician,
but he was more interested in imagination and thought
than he was in props for good reason.
The toy he came up with about determining the vectors of quantum phenomenon
is unimaginably brilliant,
and he doesn't know how he came up with it,
but I think it's in QED, his book on quantum electrodynamics,
that I've read a few times with astonishment,
because this is an instance where it really looks like somebody was an alien, right?
It's like they come up with something that looks like alien code
about quantum transformations,
that any normal human being without very significant mathematical knowledge can perform.
But that's the kind of stuff we are fully capable of doing,
and we're capable of doing it in all kinds of places,
relationally, not just technologically.
So, Feynman's father was trying to ensure that his son didn't adopt a cripplingly narrow,
you know, circa 19, whatever, 40, 30, world view.
And Feynman's a scientist, I think he would say,
I mean, he'd probably say he's a human being first,
but he would certainly claim to be very deeply interested in the capacity for analysis to result in insight,
something like this, yeah.
But it wasn't mere analysis with Feynman, thankfully,
and we got lucky with that guy.
There are many great minds who realized that they're not merely human,
and this is what I'm hoping to communicate.
We are fully human, but we are not merely human.
And our world is in, I believe, in its actual nature and activity and being and form.
So dimensionally deep, so rich, so profound,
that the idea of gods is rendered relatively trivial by what's actually going on.
Over the developmental history of our species, the layers became stratified,
and our felt sense of being in the world was pressed, you know, from their core,
some was taken and pressed into the next layer,
where we then dwell, and from our core, even less was taken and then pressed into the more modern layer,
where we then dwell.
And so we are not, we have no real, our access to our core in waking life is normally very limited.
There are all kinds of play we can engage in that transform that,
and that return some of the possibilities of our humanity to us.
And I think we are reasonably concerned that there are also various forms of extremely contagious nonsense
that we don't want any part of, really.
Now some of that nonsense is pro-generative of useful insight and growth and awareness and learning,
but some of it is just like a very special trap in the narrow,
the narrow layer knows it's narrow, so it makes little traps inside it that look like escape vectors,
but are actually just prisons, right?
We do this.
Although, you know, I don't command the oxygen on Earth.
It is not at my disposal.
Though I think I could write it down,
thankfully I don't.
And similarly, we imagine that we are the keepers of our minds,
but our minds are being kept by other things.
And whether or not those things have intrinsic being-like qualities
so that our minds are inhabited by something like angels and demons,
we could name them differently.
They'd still amount to pretty much the same thing.
You'd have the bad, infective mind-making stuff,
and the good, not as contagious mind-making stuff.
Or beings, right?
And it looks a bit like this to me, right?
It does.
It looks like something we cooperate with a variety of
originary forces and conserved structural traditions,
and so on and so forth, in mind-making.
And ordinarily, you know, we think,
oh, I have a mind, so I don't have to make one.
But no, it's not true.
You actually, it's more like a recipe.
It's more like a cooking project, right?
You want to chase a certain experience,
you want to make a certain experience,
you want to chase a certain experience or outcome
