But each child has not yet acquired or is still in the process of acquiring this really narrow modern mind layer.
This very conceptual abstract.
Think in generalities.
Think about averages.
Think about norms.
Project norms over the field.
Collapse the field to points.
Collapse the manifold to fields.
Collapse the field to a plane.
Collapse the plane to a graph.
Collapse the graph to a point.
Think of the point as the entire field so that the whole diversity disappears.
This stuff is just mind wrecking.
And it's the everyday flavor of the media and the contexts that we are generally engaged in.
And one of the reasons why I come here in an attempt to be refreshed and renewed and to recognize and be recognized by...
Again there's no...
We have no class for...
We have no class that contains a member like this.
So I don't know how to refer to what I'm being recognized by in regular language.
In technical language it would be something like...
The beings who are my ancient family and embody and exist and express a biorelational hyper structure
that supervenes over time, right?
It's above time.
It has embodiment down here in time.
It's doing all things in time, you know, stuff in time.
But it's being is outside of time.
And I wouldn't want to call it a god, but that's the closest class we have.
And it's a...
It's kind of crummy.
It's not good.
So we need some kind of new frame.
A frame that can originate minds.
A frame that the existence of this class, if we're talking lexically, is known to express itself in beings and minds throughout time, but from outside of time.
And it's a wonderful experience to be recognized by something.
Because I am its body and it is my body and it's in time and outside of time.
And you can travel in this network.
I think our minds are made for that, actually, not for all the things we do with them.
Yeah, there's a...
Well, you know, I was listening to Richard Feynman and he was talking about his father and how his father really encouraged him to use his imagination
to go, like, way past what the humans have done.
Go outside what the humans have done.
Suppose, for example, that you come from another world.
The world has an extremely advanced, sort of, actually advanced intelligence perspective.
And they come and look at the questions in you, as you.
They come and, you know, play and explore in the world of humans.
But they think like they're from another universe, because they are.
And they're still human.
So it's as if, essentially Feynman's dad was saying something.
He wouldn't state it this clearly, but for all intents and purposes, you are an alien from time space.
You're carrying assets from time space that are incredibly more sophisticated than anything the humans are playing with and have played with.
So don't start and stop within the little narrow band of human activity.
Chase the big questions with your imagination, with wonder, with awe, with reverence, with enthusiasm.
If it is, you know, your nature to enjoy such pursuits, which, of course, for Feynman, almost nothing better.
So our imaginations are fundamentally important, and they're part of what gets crushed by the very modern layer.
You can see this happening as children grow up, right?
You can see them with some exceptions, with some very important exceptions, and many of them.
But according to the general pool, not enough.
But most of the children, they'll lose their imagination.
They'll stop imaginably playing as they get older.
For many of them, sometime between, I don't know, 9 and 15, the first wave of that process will sort of pulse through their cognition.
But you can see the children's fascination collapsing toward functions, objects, transactions.
Just like their parents have done.
And this is very tragic, and we should pay close attention, because we do not grow out of our imagination.
It's a cultural problem.
It's a conceptual linguistic problem.
It's a contextual problem.
We naturally mimic and are inclined toward recapitulating the cultures we find ourselves in
and the behaviors and concerns that are popular.
Obviously, because those behaviors are rewarded and others are punished or go unnoticed.
But Feynman's father was trying to explain to him something that I think Feynman took very deeply to heart.
Which was that the metrics by which intelligence and human minds and beings are ordinarily measured in their own systems are bullshit.
So go outside the systems, go beyond.
Start beyond them.
You can include little pieces of them or whole segments of knowledge, if you want.
But start above it.
Because that's your natural...
It is your nature.
It is in accord with your nature that your mind, at least partly in important aspects, supervenes over knowledge and language and ideas.
Because if it doesn't, then it collapses into the structure of its tools.
And that's not habitable.
And the imagination dies in there.
If it collapses.
Now, the imagination can play with tools in wonderful ways.
As we've seen craftsmen, artists, musicians, even actors, although the tools of the actor are not precisely physical.
And if we begin to think as beings who come from time-space and are native to Earth,
now things change very strangely for the meaning of identity and also our access to intelligence.
Because it is not only by experiment that we learn.
We learn also by relation.
And no one can say, well, relation is experimental.
Is it?
Really?
Because I think before the advent of science a few hundred years ago,
science as we know it,
these two things were reasonably considered distinct.
Experiment and relation.
Though we perform something resembling experiments in relationships.
We make as if gestures.
We invent.
We collaborate, hopefully.
The fundamental ideas that we're exposed to in life first,
but that are taken up from our experience in existence by disciplines such as physics.
It's a great mountain of dirt.
That must be a blast I remember.
I remember playing as a child on large piles of dirt and how incredible it was.
Of course, it'd be unlikely that I've had that experience without bulldozers and things, it seems.
I've spoken of this before, although it's been on my mind a lot lately, the past few days.
I should return to the previous topic.
I think Feynman's father was saying, imagine you're an explorer from time-space,
and you've landed on Earth, and you're inside a human form,
but you come from up there, and your home is up there, and your people are up there, and everything's up there.
But it's also everything that's up there, with very few exceptions,
can be found embodied, sort of encrypted, if you will, in form, nearby.
So walk in the world relating with the deepest questions about time, light, origin, organisms,
consciousness, dreaming, love, wonder, awe, reverence, enchantment, hatred, war, disease,
technology, mathematics, language, art, children, trees, raccoons, bees,
oceans, coils.
As if you've been transported into a living library of all of the beings and relationships
and families and histories and knowledge and intelligence of time-space, right where you are.
So that there's really no position you can't reach from inside your little human body
encapsulated in physical reality on planet Earth.
All places in time and space are accessible from here.
Now it sounds like a crazy science fiction story, and various science fiction stories have been written about it.
One that comes to mind is the Stars of My Destination by Alfred Bester,
in which a man learns that he can teleport under conditions of extremely profound stress,
for example, the threat of incipient extinction.
And one of the reasons why I'm telling these stories in this way is because a long time ago
they were told to me, they were shown to me, I experienced them, with another being,
that it's really difficult for me to imagine as having been human,
or even being an embodied being in the ways we would ordinarily think about it.
And we had many long conversations, except that their version of language causes the experience to happen in you
as if you've had the experience the language refers to instead of referring to it.
There's no way to do something like that in English.
And the closest ways are kind of silly.
Well, it's not entirely true.
Language can be used to draw us into trance, that's an interesting feature.
And language can also be used to shock and or terrify us.
I don't like that feature as much, but it's interesting.
Because it's not an ordinary linguistic everyday experience, well, for most of us.
For some of us it is. For some of us language becomes a terrifying opponent of our intelligence and awareness.
For some of us, our minds collapse into language.
And thus language tells us what it means.
And we can see the association of this with a variety of the species of psychosis and schizophrenia and such.
So when I was making the little toy about moving the point of origin from perspective,
the humans always think that it's important to travel physically.
But if there's a network that allows non-physical travel, trust me, you'd prefer it.
And you'd be very happy being here on earth and being able to experience other minds, other worlds, other situations,
without having to physically go there, which would be both expensive and dangerous and all kinds of strange things.
There probably are accessible transports for something resembling instantaneous physical travel.
I have good reason to suspect they're mostly unused, except by very dangerous collectives.
But my point is really to try and return some of the inherent nature and diversity and intelligence
and aspects of origin and being and identity that are inherently associated with our humanity,
but are ejected by our definitions.
We think we know what humans are.
Now, if we knew what humans were, then many of the things that humans do that are far outside the norms
look impossible to us, like the magician who learns to hold his breath for 20 minutes,
or the guy who learns to freedive to 180 feet and hang out down there,
or the martial artist that can put her finger through a millimeter of iron.
The person who climbs the mountain, the snowy mountain naked,
the person who invents hypnosis, or discovers it,
the minds that contribute to mathematics.
From the normalized perspective of human thought,
from our common trap in the thin layer of modern ideas,
that of course is very sophisticated in certain dimensions,
like technological dimensions, mathematical dimensions, economic dimensions,
but knows nothing of, it doesn't know the first thing about the first thing.
We can do all this stuff in a kind of fictionalized overlay, a layer, a blanket,
on top of everything that's truly meaningful in human,
and we can become very confused as generations upon generations
re-ramify the thinness and compression of that layer,
that nearly everyone will live in throughout their entire lives,
in the wars, in the disease, in the lost opportunity for living meaningful lives
as human beings together, which this reminds me of another problem I had earlier.
I was thinking about the United States and the goal wasn't something like
a vast population of despotic, luxury-addicted imbeciles
projecting their dominant greatness over mankind and the rest of the world.
That was not the fucking goal.
The goal wasn't a technological nightmare that eats the ecologies of the planet
and snuffs human cognition in the process.
No, that wasn't the goal.
The goal was something like the liberty to explore and develop
the finest and most noble assets of our potential as human beings,
as individuals and as collectives, both.
That was the promise that I associate with the urge to form this nation.
Now, each individual who was involved had a raise of purposes,
but there was a spirit underlying this and the spirit of liberty
is not about freedom to do everything you want to do or anything that can be done.
In fact, that's not liberty.
Like, there are problems with really general words like liberty,
and one of them is that an unstructured liberty encodes a flaw
with the potential to incline us to self-terminating games,
games that wipe them and their players out and other players too.
Is that really liberty?
It just depends on how general we are, what we mean by it,
but if we mean the first thing that I was saying,
if we mean the nurtured, supported opportunity
to discover what it means and can become to be human
in an intelligent, creative, heartfelt culture,
this has been the dream of our ancestors in every generation.
And some of them lived in such cultures,
even though they were technologically and conceptually,
