I've experienced it when one human being
or a small group of human beings,
they do something so beautiful and true to our essence
and our heart and our nature and to the heart of the sky
and to the heart of the world and the heart of the sun,
that the whole world just lights up and goes like,
ah, amazing, you know, our children, it was worth it.
It was worth everything we suffered.
But when we do the opposite,
the toxicity and tragedy of that is inconceivable.
Yet feelable.
And it matters these things, they matter in the...
Well, most people do not, many people do not think in such terms,
they don't realize, even if you limit it to humans, right,
our ancestors worked for dreams.
And we have the luxury, or we have had anyway,
it's probably going away for a bit, maybe permanently.
We've had the luxury of being able to fulfill those dreams,
but the dreams we've fulfilled are mostly dark and grim
and nightmares, really.
We've fulfilled the nightmares of the dreaming our ancestors,
lives were made of.
It's very sad.
And you know, there's levels, right?
There's like the individual level.
Occasionally, I have an opportunity or I'm able to compose an opportunity
to do something beautiful, to be someone beautiful.
And I want that.
That's the path that I really desire.
But other desires contest with it,
and other injuries and confusions contest with it.
And our species is much like this.
In the sense of they're not dissimilar to one great big individual
in a million bodies.
Or billions of bodies.
So I wanted to just sort of play with the idea that as we can
sink down from the crust layer of modernity
toward the origins of, and the minds of our ancestors,
because we contain them.
We can go looking for them in archaeological digs and research and so on.
And I don't recommend that we don't do any of that,
necessarily, but could under some circumstances.
But the inner archaeology that we can do is really profound
and leads all the way back to the first thing.
Or the first to the origin.
It's not a thing back there. There's no first thing.
That's just weird English language.
Alright, so the layers.
And from outer space.
Okay.
If I want to open the senses
that in my waking life ordinarily are occluded or blocked,
there's different paths I can
traverse toward that goal.
One of them is to quiet my thinking mind.
Just let it slow down.
And maybe with a little
diaphanous puff it disappears.
And then there's silence in my mind.
And then I begin to, often in nature,
I begin to see things with my eyes.
But just a moment ago were invisible.
Oh, yeah.
And then I begin to learn things
that are of a different kind from the activity of my mind, usually.
And these feel often like experiences of insight,
and I enjoy that.
I can form a mind to chase a question in a specific place,
or even to go to a place and look for a question,
to discover a question in the place where I may pursue it.
And often this is a question related to living beings and living places.
I can move from my intellect into my heart.
That's a very profound thing.
It can be difficult to do because I think I feel vulnerable
and the modern crust is not particularly friendly to heartful.
Anything other than sort of superficially heartful stuff.
There are many ways that I can redirect my side genesis,
but it requires that I begin with an intention resembling that.
I want to form my mind anew.
So please bear in mind that your mind is not a possession.
It's something you are making.
And if you make different minds,
you get different assets and vulnerabilities.
And we can make really amazing minds together when we recall this
and when we can lift each other out of the narrow confines of the crust
and take a breath of the starry atmosphere
in the beyond of our idea of our humanity
and carry like a whale that breath of the starry timeless immensity
down, down, down into our human experience of this moment.
And then everything around us is nourished by this breath
as we swim in the waking world, the world of the waking mind.
Yesterday in the morning I saw astonishing things
and I can't share all of them right now.
Beautiful tiny phenomenon in light and life.
But as I was with a tree who is my friend
and I could see a lot of the trees sap
and I was just wondering
in the way like a child would wonder or a comedian
why are trees filled with glue?
Why is tree blood gluey?
I actually have a little bit right here.
Oh, there's the hawk we saw earlier.
There's a reason why it is here in this particular spot.
It's looking for someone or something.
Or the spot's very familiar to it.
It's comfortable here.
And part of why it might be comfortable is because it's not being harassed by corvids
which, you know, hawks have a pretty rough time in the bird world.
They're always being harassed because they eat the babies of other birds.
Or actually, I don't really trust that because they're.
This involves the seemingly true feature of hawks
that they eat babies of other birds.
It's not the reason.
The reason is quite sophisticated and complex.
Or actually it's just not a reason at all.
It's not reasonable.
It's meta-reasonable.
So many of the things I want to talk about are beyond the ways we usually talk.
But I'm inclined to just flip a little switch and go like,
I don't mean human, I mean meta-human.
I don't mean intelligence, I mean meta-intelligence.
It doesn't really work though.
Unfortunately, that toy doesn't help much.
It can be useful occasionally.
Overused, it's a nightmare, it just wrecks stuff.
It makes us more blind.
Because we're just transferring something we don't understand to another order
and we feel like, well, as long as we set this order above what we understand, it's okay.
There's some usefulness there.
But it's also deceptive when it's merely linguistic.
It doesn't work very well.
There's mothers with their children here.
The universe is replaying itself on little fields of dirt.
Mountains of sand.
Mothering is the great underappreciated dimensions of actual human intelligence.
This is where the stuff that really matters is going on in mothering.
I have great reverence for mothers and women in general,
and men and animals and plants,
but I certainly have special reverence for mothers and women.
So yeah, I was wondering why the blood of trees is like glue.
And maybe it's more like that when it comes out of the tree
and less like that when it's inside the tree.
I don't know.
But when we fill the vase with something,
the vase is not the same, and we are not the same.
When we fill the vase with something,
we've transformed ourselves too.
This is the thing that is difficult to understand.
And then if you really want to get difficult,
there's no transformation whatsoever,
but that's really too difficult.
I can't go there very well myself.
I'm afraid of that place.
So thank you for joining me on my morning walk and explorations.
There's some topics I had in mind that I didn't get to touch on.
But like the spider, we can make of our minds traveling threads,
capture webs, and even skyhooks.
Something we can float up into the high terrain of intelligence
and then release our position here and just go visit the other minds,
the other ancient intelligences.
Our own minds are made of these in the layers of their anatomy.
So it seems to me and it has been my experience
that all that we imagine to be far away
and to require physical travel, though physical travel is interesting.
It's not required.
The imagination and our minds are equipped for travel
in a network unlike anything we've conceived of.
And it's a network of incredibly beautiful intelligences,
anciently profound, loving, playful, trustworthy, inherently trustworthy.
It's down here that we've got trouble,
particularly in that crust on top of the mind in which we're stuck.
So, I mean, I'm reminded of the tar pits, right,
in them swallowing the prehistoric mammoths
and maybe some dinosaurs and stuff.
Perhaps together we can recall and learn
all the miraculous mysteries of our deep humanity.
This is my home.
This is my dream.
Goodbye for now.
