or kind of growth or insight,
then you have to compose a mind capable of doing that.
And the primary faculty with which this composition takes place,
imagination.
In fact, if there are other faculties,
all of the other faculties seem to be composed out of
collapsed imagination into structure, right?
I know.
So that layeredness is really interesting,
and you can see, like even in this tree,
there's a map of time.
The bottom of the tree, probably the oldest time.
The roots of the tree, the invisible roots,
the oldest time.
The top of the tree, the newest time.
And it spreads out in branches
and becomes more diverse as it complexifies.
Well, the problem with humans is
we're spreading and diversifying
into traditionally posed abstractions and transactions
that replace relationships, insight,
presence in the game, skin in the game, intelligence,
concern, intuition.
And so these are fake branches
and they're eating the tree of our minds.
The trunk is being like...
Chunks of the trunk are being exported, right?
And we're getting all this apparent progress,
structure shit on the top,
except most of it's lethal.
So I don't think you'll find any tree
who as it grows starts attacking its own trunk
with the upper branches to destroy the trunk.
But that's how human cognition is acting presently
in the Cognizium of Humans
and in the, you know, biorelational hyperstructure of the planet.
Which is, in case it isn't clear, the trunk.
That's where we get intelligence from.
There wasn't ever any other place to get it.
This is the only place there is for us to have it
or to be.
So, really weird idea.
Yet, absolutely prevalent.
Just as prevalent is in a terrifying science fiction story
where evil monsters from universe X,
in this case, humans,
come to destroy everything.
Including themselves, apparently.
They're that bent on.
And it's not because they're essences this way.
It's because the character of the upper layer,
the character of the modern layer
in which they're mostly trapped, is omnicidal.
It's like a patient who's had a stroke
on the right hemisphere of their brain, right?
And they just see manipulables
and when those things refuse to be manipulated
in the way they like, they want them destroyed.
And it's really bizarre that humans could ever develop
in such a direction that they became
abiotic, right?
Their primary concerns were divesting places
and their own bodies of life and diversity.
But that is the time in which we live.
On Mars.
And there isn't any intelligent collective, right?
It really is like a couple of drunk teenagers
got ahold of the family fortune
while the parents were out of town
and burnt the fucking...
Not just the house, but the whole neighbor.
Maybe they set the city on fire, right?
And died in the process.
And then the parents come home and they're like,
So there's this weird way in which we're missing something
and one way to understand this something is simply
we're not present in the living places
and relationships in the way that we need to be corrected
by that relation.
But it's like an old story where
very intelligent parents leave their children on an island.
They have to, for some reason.
And they can't stay with them on the island
perhaps because they're not physical.
And they know that on the island
the children will forget everything about their home
and their family and intelligence and such.
And they leave them with some special gifts
that have the power to reawaken those memories
initially because they're very concerned
that their children will forget who they are.
In the sense of their most fundamental...
the essences of their origin,
their relational intimacies with being in origin as origin,
their potentials for profound, miraculous
transformation and growth and learning and insight, healing.
It's as if the parents disappeared
and then over time the little things they left us
and this is one of them.
We forgot how to follow them back to the memories from before.
And yet within each of us there is this weird thing,
a kind of a heart compass,
that we feel like, ah yes, this here, this is good.
Ah yes, this over here, not so much of that, or no.
There's a compass.
And that compass is important in mind-forming,
in what I call Sygenesis,
which we've been playing with today
because I'm forming mind about forming mind.
Not so much intentionally.
So if we sink down in the layers,
and part of that happens immediately when we dream,
boom, now we're in like an older, lower layer
that's more connected with the layers beneath it,
which the modern little narrow shell like crust is not,
and resists, right?
It actively resists the intrusion of
nourishment and inform-ing-ness from lower layers,
right, from the old stuff.
And that old stuff is really rich, really deep,
really profound, and that's where most of our humanity is hidden.
It's very easy to see when you encounter, for example,
somebody who's extremely skillful,
usually often a very old man.
The old man is muscularily weak, right?
Feel his arms just flabby flop in there, right?
But then he just touches you like this,
and your body falls over.
And there's no possible way you can duplicate that thing.
There's no secret he can teach you
where suddenly now you can do this, too.
At least that's very unlikely.
It's not impossible.
But it's extremely unlikely it's next to impossible.
And this is because this old man has spent his life
understanding his interior inside his body,
and doing things inside his body
that other people do with the outside of their body.
And most people would say,
well, that's nonsensical.
You can't do things inside your body.
Yes, actually you can.
And the reason they think it's nonsensical,
that's just the crust defending itself, right?
Well, that's just bullshit.
I've never seen anything like that.
You haven't seen most of what's going on,
so the fact that you've never seen anything like that
does not entitle you to dismiss it as nonsense.
Now, there are occasionally useful purposes
for dismissing something in that way.
But we should be very cautious
in transferring our ideas about the norms of humanity
to the nature of humanity,
because the nature of humanity is not expressed in the norms, right?
Or rather, a kind of least common factor, right?
A least meaning less diverse, less rich,
less deep, less dimensional.
A least common factor is expressed in norms.
But we should never project that over the field of humans,
because the opposite is what we should do.
We should take the exemplars
of astonishing, miraculous superfunction,
what seems to us to be superfunction,
and understand this is the nature of humanity.
The nature of humanity is in
radically exceeding all possible expectation,
or even things we could have previously imagined.
And then becoming those things together,
and hopefully for purposes that are noble and true and beautiful,
and would be shared with all of the life on Earth, right?
We have the capacity to accomplish things
so astonishingly beautiful and miraculous
that life on Earth itself would be
not merely celebrated,
but the dreams of the ancient nurseries of life
would find fulfillment, right?
Suddenly the suffering and illness and predation and disease
and beauty and wonder and awe
would have been for something meaningful,
and that would change everything on Earth.
Everything feels when something like this happens, right?
The whole bell of the living beings of Earth,
it just resonates with a kind of developmental friction,
that feeling of tingling all over, yeah?
And our people have the capacity to become this,
yet we primarily, as Ammas, become the opposite of this.
We're pissing on the history of the suffering and dreams
and wonder and awe and gifts of life on Earth.
We're pissing on that, laughing, turning up the stereo,
you know, buying the 9,000 fucking,
buying the 9,000 ton truck, right?
Buying the truck that spits out black smoke,
and just, you know, fuck you, and there's no environment,
you know, this kind of shit, right?
I don't know how many pounds the truck is,
a big number, a big number of pounds.
It's tragic, it's wrong, we can't live like this,
I can't live like this, this is miserable.
And I know the other feeling because I've experienced it,
