are portals and purposes that make that mission accessible, compelling and
productive in exactly the ways that we're starving for inside, in exactly the
ways that that hunger makes us vulnerable to predators who want to sell us
counterfeits of this. I'm not angry in the same way Eric is angry or about the
same things and I'd be shocked if he were to listen to my little tirade and
find anything interesting about it at all. He'd probably just dare me to show
him what I meant but his capacity to form that question and present it to me is
the evidence that answers his challenge. We presume that our distant ancestors were
ignorant and superstitious because they didn't have science and they didn't
build machines and certainly when you know Spanish warships showed up somewhere
in you know South America or America and disembarked soldiers with armored you
know and weapons and horses and stuff, not to mention diseases, plagues, the
indigenous peoples there were decimated, their ways of knowing were
obliterated by the forceful incursion of the colonists but it is naive. It's
unforgivably naive to suppose that that means that the tribal and indigenous
ancestors who we must all trace our lineage is to if we are to believe the
stories suggested by Darwinian evolution and then at some point we were animals,
at some point we were all without technology as we understand it and to
suggest that that the knowledge of those peoples is all superstition and make
believe is provably wrong and dangerously insane. Now I'm not suggesting that we
return, that we go back in time and try to become like our ancestors. What I'm
suggesting is that there's a manifold of living intelligences on earth that our
ancestors were familiar with. They knew it intimately, the way we intimately know
our relationship with the light of the sun or oxygen or water and we can recover
those relationships and we should, I'd say we must although you know I'm not
trying to command anyone to do anything. But no matter what may come in the
future, we should be willing as people as individuals and groups to say we've had
enough of having our wings clipped off in childhood and being sold chains in
answer to the hunger in our hearts for flight. Instead we must recover together
the capacity to recognize and celebrate the essential interiority of our
humanity with all of its faculties and intelligence, with all of its nobility
and awesome scope and origin. And we should do this with both urgency and
humility for the gifts we carry were not established by ourselves, they were
established in relation with the living places of which we are expressions. If we
cannot understand that, our capacity for understanding has been largely silenced.
So I am hopeful having had direct experiences of the things of which I
speak that obliterated my wildest hopes and imaginings. I am hopeful that someday
we may learn to establish contexts even if it's only four or five of us and
maybe that's exactly how it starts with a tiny little group tightly knit,
curious, impassioned, capable, skillful, intelligent. In the shape of our hands
there is a secret. Each of the members is unique and they're joined together by a
unifying body, the palm. Your own body is not dissimilar, you have five
appendages joined together by a unifying body. Each of your arms and legs has three,
you know, segments and they end in stars. Your head has two segments. This structure
is an analogy of a method that could take us not merely to the stars but to the origins of our
own minds and potential for intelligence. And that is my hope and that is my dream.
And today and for some time now that has been my mission to try to return to common human
experience, the unimaginable prodigy, intelligence and abilities that are natural to our humanity.
I think it's time our species stopped pretending that crippled crawling was flight and actually
had some direct experience of taking to the air again together with and for each other and the
history of life on earth. Thank you for joining me. May we return to the skies of the origins of
our minds together. Bye bye for now.
