Hey everybody.
Our upbringing and our societies present us in our youth with simple, tokenized,
artifacted ideas about the most fundamental aspects of what it means to be human or to be an animal or an organism.
And because we belong with our societies of origin and our families of origin,
and because they were the original authorities in our childhood,
we come to believe things about organisms, time, space, light,
and this can for us be extremely crippling.
There are many relationships and aspects of intelligence and awareness and being an animal.
And being something more than merely any of those things, something fundamentally mysterious and open to transformation.
And that sense, that aspect of our humanity, we have little familiarity with because what happens through our lives, for most of us, with some few exceptions, for many people,
with some few exceptions, is that as we strengthen our grasp upon and reliance on these extremely crude ideas, mechanical time that light is primarily just a physical process, a material process,
even though we cannot be said to clearly understand even that, even where we put the frame, right?
But time is a many-splendored thing, and the mechanical time that we're given to think in and obey and believe in,
represents a terrifying impoverishment for so many reasons, or in so many ways.
It's much more normal than I suspected earlier.
The time of clocks and machines is a tokenization, a mechanical tokenization of temporality.
And one of the fictions we come to accept is a fiction of the flatness and universality of time.
The time is the same here and there. It goes according to seconds, minutes, hours, days, and so on, sunrise and sunset. The numbers we associate with those intervals, the numbers we associate with the calendars, all made into little squares,
are ideas of time as organisms represent a staggering frame collapse.
In order to witness phenomena that are changing, we have to enter into an appropriate position from which
in which we can relate with the phenomenon according to its pace, to its rhythms, to its tempos, to its harmonies, with other temporalities, other layers of temporality in other organisms.
And it turns out that for humans,
the faster you go, the less attention you have to invest, the less time you've spent observing before making a mover decision.
The more disconnected, confused, and coherent, and clumsy,
not merely one's behavior in relationships becomes, but one's relation with our own minds collapse in this way.
In other words, it's a situation where in order to advance in a broad array of
areas of concern or goals, one might have to slow down and allow temporalities to cohere around
one's perspective and intentions and purpose and relational integrity
in order to participate meaningfully at all. And so, you know, we hear, I've heard,
various people talking about loss of attention span, and particularly with media, and this is in part due to
horrifying degrees of overchoice, right? It's like walking into a bookstore with a billion books,
and having them advertising themselves at you.
That's an experience that an ordinary person would not be able to withstand for long.
Soon they would either want to get out or be shaking inside, maybe both, maybe other things.
So in order to be able to participate in certain aspects of awareness, or intelligence, or creativity,
or wonder, or reverence, or awe, or joy,
or ecstasy,
it is probably almost always useful to slow down in phases.
Rather than to reach for the next accessible thing, this instant, that one can find with one's
relatively incoherent and misguided consciousness, you slow down.
And then, you slow down again.
And then, you examine anew.
And then, you slow down someone.
And what you gain as you slow down
is new possibilities of relational sharing and exchange, understanding, learning, insight.
You gain layers of presence
in something we could think of as a cone of concentric circles, right?
All across the tower, and that tower keeps growing, and maybe even sprouts the second
entire domain of possible relation,
or third, or seven. So as you slow down,
you begin to become sensitive to, and accessible by,
beings in relation, whose temporalities are very different from yours.
It doesn't occur to common people that we occupy a layer
in the biorelational,
in the hyperstructure of Earth, all of the organisms, with all their unique temporalities and
places in space and time and relation.
And this is a source of knowledge and learning
that is unequaled. It might be unequal a bowl,
but only if we can slow down and relate coherently over time,
so that more
sensings that would otherwise be unavailable to us, or would easily escape our
moment-to-moment, what's next, what's next, kind of mindset, those begin to become
perceivable to us,
which means the opportunity for relation.
There's a parable about
place where there are a number of tribes, and someone from a distant tribe comes to visit
one of the other tribes.
And there's a place for them to sit outside where the tribe gathers,
and so they arrive, and they sit, and they watch, and they observe from outside, slowly.
And a day or two passes, and then the villagers will bring that visitor food,
and they will sit for some more days observing.
Now that indicates an extremely different
pace of expectation and idea and human temporality.
But there's something else going on there. There's a lot going on there.
One of the things is that the visitor is matching their temporality
to those they have come to visit,
and it takes time for that synchronization to happen. It's not instantaneous.
It's not just because you showed up. That's a relational negotiation where synchronization
is being transformed by relation.
Meaningfully, but not just synchronization or time, also concern.
The visitor becomes intimate with the daily concerns of the village they are visiting,
and this is very coherent because there's a single primary focus
in it,
which is reunion,
which is truly joining with other beings.
And that purpose
is so well recognized
that all living beings respond to it.
Whether or not this is mechanically apparent to the intellects
with which we analyze a question like this.
But it's blatantly obvious.
Octopuses become curious about human beings and want to
synchronize and relate, and insects, animals, plants, everything, living places.
So, as our attention span contracts,
as the pace and intrusion
of demands that cause our temporal space to decohere, as that increases,
we get desynchronization in all of our relationships,
which causes shock when there's communication across desynchronized.
That causes a kind of shock, and
most of the potentials for relation disappear. They get skipped.
They get skipped over. They never become apparent
because we're stuck in this little, you know, highly framed up knot hole at the top
of the temporalities that are natural to one of the longest-lived mammals on Earth.
A mammal that lives a long time
acquires the privilege of seeing from above
many shorter temporalities, right? The lifespans of
many plants, animals, insects, and so on, some living places.
So,
our cultures press us up into, they oppress us up, into this really
tiny, flat idea of time, seconds, minutes, hours, days, months, years.
But there's a whole other dimension of time, which is living time,
and it doesn't come in seconds or hours or days or months or years.
It comes at rates and in intervals that are musical,
that are natural to the relationships between living beings,
and in relation with one another intentionally, with awareness, with mutual concern, with understanding.
And when we see fantastical stories about human beings
in a kind of fantasy-like supernatural relationship with living places and the animals,
what we're seeing is a representation
of far less than what we lost and what we're losing, when we're not available.
And
there are these two German words, Zeitgeber and Zeitstorr, if I remember correctly.
I'll add it to the comments later, but
these are stimuli that cause time and synchronization locally to decohere or to recohere.
There are at least 50 and maybe hundreds of layers of temporality
in our own bodies that have to synchronize for us to stay alive.
And when they decohere, we suffer.
We can't sleep or we, you know, can't have relationships because we're only awake at night
or whatever it is that happens. All kinds of metabolic harm happens
when decoherence is the only thing on the menu. And for many modern human beings,
that's most of what's going on. And it's happening in this very flat, very mechanically paced
projection. It's weird to call something that flat a projection.
It's like we squash time flat and then we threw away the extra hundred dimensions of
relational opportunity that we're just laying around after we did that. And then we cut it up
into little pieces and then we started measuring those with machines. And then machines started
intruding ever more profoundly into our lives so that we're constantly getting emails and texts
and phone calls and signals when we're at work and we're at not all the time at night when we're asleep.
The 24-hour day in our lives
was as if they squeezed the juice of living out of it and then simulated the rind and gave us that.
And by they I mean our modern, you know, commercial, prison industrial, military,
consumer, capitalists, communists, contexts.
Or I might mean by they just our machines. The rapid transformation of our machines changed time.
And in case it isn't obvious, the sudden appearance of the pandemic
is radically altering the meaning of time and space.
That's a relationship in that the pandemic hasn't caused directly the transformation of time, but
how the humans respond to it does. And it's the sudden introduction of a very fast temporality,
right, in terms of the propagation of viruses over ordinary time.
And the animal level temporality, right, these two things are merging.
Almost as if nature said, oh, you guys want fast time? Here, let me introduce you to my friend,
the novel coronavirus. You'll find out everything about fast time right away.
Because at the scale of a virus,
in the space time expression that viruses are, right, expressions of space time and its qualities
and potentials in organismal reality, that little space capsule is its own layer of time.
And that layer iterates extremely rapidly, not just locally,
but by magnifying the populations it iterates in. Does that sound familiar to you?
Because that's what happened with radios and televisions and telephones and cars
and computers and smartphones and
to the degree that we're constantly bathed in electronic signaling now from machines.
There was probably macro electromagnetic signaling among organisms before the machines showed up,
but if there was any useful or important sharing happening in that wavelength,
that stuff's been completely overridden by electromagnetic noise in most places
that most of the people are, that many of the people are.
So, this sounds a bit like a doomcast, but I want to explain
and to encourage everyone to explore. You're alive still, hopefully.
Um, you can slow down. You can experiment with the toy-like model that I've presented here,
where, as we slow down more and more, new opportunities and domains of relation and
signaling and transmission, new opportunities for learning and understanding,
arise. And this is true even in a friendship, even in a romantic relationship, it may be far more true.
Um, unfortunately, for nearly all moderns, the idea and concept of courtship
has been rendered a sort of anachronistic cartoon.
But what if people actually took their time
really learning to be present with each other, to deeply synchronize
before they leap into, well,
whatever it is they leap into together.
And sure, you know, it's um, there's enchantment and there's all these emotions and feelings.
But I get the sense that courtship is another dimension where
we've suffered a loss of temporalities,
a loss of opportunity for relation, because everything's so compressed.
And it's, it's funny today, I had the inspiration to
make a video in which I discussed some of these topics, but also what I want to refer to as task
coherence. When we have the opportunity, we have the space
to really settle into being present. Our motivations change. And we can experience
the kinds of focused creativity and intensity and intimacy that are otherwise evicted by
constant interruptions, right, that decoher our tasks. Not just our tasks, but the space in which
we select roles and opportunities and which threat to attend and so on. And as our
attentional pace is rapidly increased and filled with intrusions,
we lose the capacity to even, our awareness plummets, let's put it that way,
which means that our choice, our freedom to make intelligent choices collapses with that.
And to whatever degree we can restore that space, that spaciousness for presence,
for awareness, our health and creativity and internal synchronization and capacity to synchronize
with other living beings and particularly humans resurges, right, it comes back.
And sometimes it takes a while because many of us are buried in layers of just, you know,
time noise. So for any of us who dream great dreams, task coherence is incredibly important,
meaning that the space in which we originate and pursue goals that deeply matter to us,
relationships that deeply matter to us, learning that deeply matters, creativity that deeply
matters. That space has to be sacred in the sense of not being constantly impinged upon
by machines and work tasks and chores and survival tasks. And the whole idea of the
technological imperative was to give us more time. Well, it succeeded at that, but it gave us
more new kinds of dead time per minute, per year. And so it's very important that we learn to see
into these situations from above them so that we can have some opportunity of relating with them
creatively and insightfully and intelligently in ways that are healthy and nourishing and
