reassuring in ways that are inspiring.
You'd be surprised how much inspiration quickly dies under the burden of the constant interruptions
and shift changes, the constant interruptions, shifts, and transformations that are
desynchronized, incoherent, modern lives essentially foist upon us. I mean, we have
some responsibility we opt in, we get the job or whatever we do. But the context itself is
fundamentally incoherent, temporally, relationally, in terms of activity or task. And the idea of a
task itself implies work, but I just mean something one is doing.
I don't think
if we can't inhabit the different layers of time from the very slow to the immediate,
meaningfully, then what ends up happening is that we skip time, we largely skip relations,
and at the end of the day we haven't lived. It's not meaningful.
And that's a tragedy I think we must help each other to heal.
To the degree our lives are precious, time is fundamentally crucial.
We need to be free to slow down and evict a bunch of the signal noise that's constantly intruding.
And perhaps for that we need the support of like-minded others.
Though we can make, you know, we can set our compass in that direction anytime we choose.
There's so much more I'd hope to say, but while I was trying to make a video on task coherence,
I kept getting interrupted by my machine because I had forgotten to put it on airplane mode first.
So that's why you'll notice some skips in the video where I shift.
But I'll probably return to the task coherence concept because it's absolutely foundational
for us to have a chance to live as human beings. We require not leisure so much as
the freedom to slow down, to not compress, you know, a week's task into two days,
to not be constantly available to machines, to not be constantly disturbed by noise and machines,
and arbiters of temporality that disorient us. We have to retrieve temporal sovereignty together.
And it's never been as important as it is right now because our species is about to embark
on a series of very dangerous adventures.
That will probably determine the future of life on earth and certainly whether or not our species has such things as a future.
So I will return to talking about time and task coherence in a video soon for today.
Well, thank you for joining me and hope that you may find some use in my walk and my exercising
my mind. Thank you. Bye-bye for now.
