Hello everybody. Welcome. Wonderful to be together again, even if the together has an unusual
structure in that we are not physically together. And obviously I must be doing something very
strange at this moment. Because at the very least, one moment. At the very least,
something unusual is going on in terms of my behavior. Interestingly, if we look at the idea
of art, any form which is not live, i.e. a symphony or dance or theater production, an oration,
a performance of some kind, any of the kinds of art that aren't live, and many of those which are,
comprise something that in English we would call a recording. And I would suggest that the word recording
is related very closely to the word religion. Which that ligny, the ligny phoneme or the ligny
word part. What is that called? I can't recall at the moment. Indicates like ligaments. It's very
important not just to bind together. To bind together across a gap. This is the important feature
of the ligny asset which figures in the word religion and is essentially translated in the word
recording. So, recording, I'm suggesting that the word fragment chord plays the same role or a very
similar one as the ligny fragment in religion. And when we are recording, if I am painting, if I am
drawing, if I am writing, my primary purpose is probably quite complex and may not necessarily
involve the concept of pleasing or impressing somehow or transforming future others, others in the
future. And it would occur to nearly none of us, yet I do think it's entirely reasonable to imagine this,
that we might affect others in the past. Turns out that there's a number of possibility spaces in which
this isn't merely possible. It seems relatively obvious to be real. In other words, to be the case that these
things happen, they occur, we can enact them. We can affect previous others. At least if previous others are
anything like our imaginings about previous others at all, we can certainly affect them. But the weird
thing that I was doing here is I am pretending that you and I are together in the future so that I will
beat, my voice will literally, in the terms of Milton Erickson's hypnotic suggestion that is very rich, my voice will go
with you. I will go with you into the future. So to create this recording that acts in a sense as a kind of
ligament, crossing a temporal gap, a spatial gap, a purposive gap, right, in that for this to happen, for me to make
this and you to hear it, we must form and enact a shared purpose. And it doesn't have to be exactly the same
purpose. In fact, I have so many purposes in creating these recordings, so many different dimensions of purposive
concern, that it would be kind of ridiculous for me to say, oh, I am doing this because X. Because I want to preserve
my thoughts for future generations or because I want to keep my mind and vocabulary sharp and embody and improve my skills
with oration. And perhaps rhetoric. And, you know, yes, those little pieces are, both of those are ingredients in the soup,
but the soup is much richer than that. So, you know, what got me making this recording this afternoon was I was listening
to an interview, I think with Ralph Metzger, maybe mispronouncing his name. And it was an interview about, well, you know, there's
always a title of an interview that's supposed to say something about what it's about, but then there's the actual interview,
which clearly is usually different, much like the title of a movie. It's the way, it's the way the book inflects the title we read
on its cover. It's the way the movie inflects the, the few words of a phrase that are its title.
It determines whether genius was at play, or people are just putting jigsaw puzzles together algorithmically. And in the interview
with Ralph, it was clear that some of the concerns were the nature of consciousness, the possibility space of consciousness,
particularly as compared to what we might ordinarily think or imagine, the transformation of the, of the experience of the possibility
space under the influence of mushrooms, for example, hallucinogens, or perhaps meditation. And the possibility that artificial
intelligence, along with our rather reasonable fears and concerns and so forth, there's a danger a few of us are not thinking
much about. He mentioned the phrase information toxicity, and it's whoever, and the person who coined it, Nick Bostrock, maybe.
But that refers to information that's fundamentally dangerous to humans. But then he talked about suffering and the imperative
to reduce it. Like, to understand the possibility space of consciousness itself, if we could, if we could do that, then we
could also understand the possibility space of suffering and find ways to turn the volume down. For all beings, not just
for humans. And he told an interesting story, Metzger did. He was the first conference he ever attended in the 80s, was in Europe,
and they were, it was sort of a branding discussion that the US was, you know, here on the graph, China was here on the graph,
both of them ahead of Europe. And the European idea was we'll give you ethical AI. No one will be spied on. We'll determine, we're going
to try to draft a guideline for the ethical implementation of AI. And what Metzger quickly discovered was that this was an absolute façade.
The people involved were all the scions of big industry and trying to figure out how to capture market share and their actual motivations had nothing
to do with being ethical. What they had to do with was, as usual, selling a product. Now you can see that this kind of a situation is
an actual religion is truly a false religion. It doesn't worship a God. It worships, it doesn't worship relationships. It worships money, power,
the possibility of reproduction and branching, mutation. It worships corporation, which you can hear in the core CORP fragment,
you hear to come together, right, the spree decor, CORPS, I think in French. And then you have the O, which is sort of like an omatic word,
like corpomatic. It automates and announces, not humans, but a process in this case, a set of processes that function together to form something that
competes against gods, against religion, against biology itself, against science, against intelligence, against survival. But it does so under the
false flag of some unique form of virtue or convenience. In so doing, it attempts to create cohorts of users, fans, customers, customers.
So it also competes against traditions and replaces them with economic demons, essentially, economic tumors.
All of this would be very surprising if we lived on a world without it and then we suddenly saw our planet, right? We would be shocked, silly, like, that's not supposed to be even a possible thing that could happen. How could it have actually taken place on this world?
And the story of how it actually took place is a dumpster fire of science fiction starters, right, little seeds of dystopian and utopian science fiction stories.
It turns out that humans are, we have this property when we are broken out of small intimate groups, relatively intimate cohorts, little tribes and things. When we are broken out of those, when our direct connection to living places, the foods of our place on the world,
the climate, the localization when we are dislocated, right, on the face of the earth in time, in relation, in identity, in role, when we are dislocated. Then we become more and more monumentally susceptible to a complex array of modes of feedback
Modes that produce feedback in the network of human minds and their societies, which I would call the archognisium.
Archognisium is very vulnerable and the disease spreads like fire. It's contagious as hell. There's almost nothing to oppose it. There are remedies, what they cannot usually compete with the momentum of the contagions that are now dominant.
They actually can compete. In fact, a single experiment could take down the entire system of malignant pretense that is most of what's going on as our social and economic systems.
We could take that down in probably 90 days, especially if we had not just one really interesting and momentous experiment that could draw wide participation, but five or six that could synergize.
You could take down the entire alien cortex in one man's words. That thing is vulnerable. It's resting on a very small number of excessively manipulable pivots and it's catastrophically top heavy.
If you can just touch one of those pivots in the right way, the whole thing will fall right over. Whether or not we'll live long enough to attempt such experiments, presuming that we don't start one right now, or that even our discussion here is not the beginning of one, which it could be, or become.
Human culture, purposive orientations and intelligence is absolutely a manipulable quantity or domain.
There are thousands of experiments that manipulating it per minute, per second probably, in social media, in algorithms, in advertising, in pornography, in politics, in religion.
In language, in art. I'm going to circle all the way back to what got me to hit the record button today.
I was listening to Ralph Metzger in this interview and he mentioned Aldous Huxley having in his book The Doors of Perception, which I have read at least once.
He mentions that clearly Huxley was approaching the verge of sheer panic and said, apparently kind of to himself,
Oh, it mustn't become this. This is much too far for this to have been going. This has gone too far. If it's going to go this far, this is too far for anything to go.
And there is, right, this point at the verge of what I often describe as non-ordinary experience, and which one of my friends Jesse yesterday was arguing is actually just ordinary experience, like there isn't any second thing.
And this was, she has a powerful argument. I argued that we maintain both distinctions, right, that we see everything as a unity first, but we also have the ability to distinguish.
But at the verge of, there's this sort of limnal twilight space where we suddenly find ourselves, we unexpectedly, perhaps almost always,
find ourselves experiencing a perspective or a situation that we are unprepared for that doesn't match up very well with our common expectations and rational explanations and categories for identity and sequence and meaning.
And is effectively either at the edge or outside the possibility, you know, the ordinary possibility space of consciousness that we experience every day and are familiar with and must feel comfortable navigating.
Consider that if you're in a space you're not familiar with, you actually can't tell what will kill you, right? So if it goes dark, it doesn't have to go that direction.
But if it goes dark and you're in a situation where there's something happening that you don't know what it is, or that it violates the entire history of your thought about everyday reality,
what we usually refer to as normative, in one of the also very dangerous ideas that there's a norm, because really the inaction spaces of biological, cognitive and perhaps metaphysical relation are so vast.
And our expectations and understanding of them are so narrow that it's like you've got a pin cushion 300 miles in diameter covered with pins and you're going to pull three of them up to pay attention to.
This is what's normally going on, right? Normative consciousness.
We think we know what everything is. If something shows up that draws that deeply into question or immediately into question, we are likely to experience terror, not necessarily.
This happens to children all the time and they don't flip out.
It often happens to adults and they don't go nuts with terror.
But you can see how there is an actual problem because if you're fundamental assertions about the nature of reality, identity, separation, what makes two things distinct?
The difference between cooperation and competition, the existence or non-existence of predators, traps, threats, right?
If all the things you use to arm your threat sentinel, if the foundations of those perspectives and concerns are suddenly invalidated, you can't tell what could kill you now.
You're not sure what a threat is anymore and you can't tell whether what you did in the past was any good, right?
It could have been monumentally ignorant because you were only seeing three of the pins instead of 97 of them transforming in a manifold over, you know, set moment to moment in consciousness,
which is probably what a lot of biological non-hyper-representational cognitive animals are doing.
So there's this problem with insight and the problem is actual insight can be terrifying because, A, it can feel like you're going to die.
Like this is, it can't go this far, right? This is way too far for it to go.
And clearly in some cases it's going to go much, much further than that, especially with psychedelics, right?
The initial onset of, hey, this is a little too much turns into, oh my, what is that, you know, like what the hell is happening to my mind, right?
The trees are dancing in a rhythm that looks like letters flowing through language and they're saying something to me in a language I understand,
but isn't English and I can't hold it in consciousness long enough to articulate it to you.
And this kind of crazy, you know, like the world can turn into something that resembles a series of metaphysical cartoons.
Or, you know, figurations of otherwise unimaginably profound meaning.
And what I think should be obvious to us is that the actual possibility space for our consciousness,
it's like the difference between the universe and Prokepsy, you know, or even a restroom in a cafe in Prokepsy, right?
This is the difference, right, between what we are usually doing and experiencing in consciousness with our minds
and what is actually accessible to us.
And there are forms of cognition accessible to us that literally could outperform the entire history of human science in an hour.
There are forms available to us that would certainly result in coherent nine-way communication
with anciently evolved non-human intelligences that are native to time space.
They're probably in, if particles exist, they're in the particles.
What is going on?
Okay, I see.
Right, that little bit of that was just happening to me.
I saw something.
I'm like, wait a minute, what is happening there?
When this starts to happen, not so much in the world, though, if it happens in the world, that can be really destabilizing.
And honestly, I remember, I've told this story before, but it has such a huge influence on me.
I was bringing something back to a friend's house at night after we hung out and played pool, his guitar,
and I had permission to enter his house at will, right? We're friends, it's not a problem.
So I went through his back gate and I walked into his open garage, this little side door,
and I was walking toward the door that leads into the living area and kitchen to hang the guitar in its wall hanger,
and he came out that door, and he certainly wasn't expecting anything to be there.
He wasn't certainly expecting anything alive to be there.
He definitely wasn't expecting a human to just be standing on the other side of that door.
So he went through, very quickly, over the course of probably something resembling two seconds,
I saw him, and of course I could only understand this in hindsight,
but I saw him going through the phases, right?
And the first one was very clearly, I'm going to take this out, right?
It was the masculine house protecting, that thing's not supposed to be there, it's about to die right now, right?
First there was startlement, and then immediately after startlement, the kill switch, right?
That thing's going down.
But then confusion, and then recalibration, and probably the fact that I was holding a guitar in my hand,
just letting the guitar hang there from just below the headstock, right?
Not held like a weapon, just hanging in my hand.
And it's kind of high because I don't want to smack it on anything, so I'm holding it up.
And yeah, there was just this moment where I saw him go through the phase shifts of what is happening,
this isn't supposed to be happening, this isn't normative.
And it ended, of course, with him powering down the adrenaline system, not attacking me, thankfully.
Because he would have ruined me.
And recognizing what has actually occurred.
In other words, filling in the interval between the last time he saw me, and this time that he is seeing me,
with coherent information that structured that interval, producing a non-threatening interpretation of a moment.
Now some people, when unexpectedly faced with staggering novelty, especially intelligent novelty,
some of those people are going to go nuts.
Because there's all kinds of problems, but one of the problems is if this is true,
what I'm seeing right now is real, then everything I ever thought was wrong.
Because there's nothing I ever thought that could have allowed for something like this.
And if everything I ever thought was wrong, probably every decision I ever made was wrong.
And there's an aspect of consciousness that sort of watches over the timeline in memory,
checking for bad mistakes, stuff we should be ashamed of, stuff we should be embarrassed about,
stuff we were chagrined about, stuff we regret.
There's an aspect of consciousness that basically, probably more than one, right?
There's a suite of assets that watch over such matters.
And if those get triggered, suddenly with a gigantic unexpected influx of stuff they have to process,
suddenly everything we've ever done, very few people will manage to negotiate that wavefront
without either shutting down or fleeing or explaining away what's going on.
I'm just hallucinating. No big deal.
I don't know.
I guess that's kind of intimate hearing my hearing me drink water.
Sound is very organismal.
So, even myself, okay?
There's a degree. There's literally a degree.
And I'm thinking about something funny, but it's almost like there's a membrane boundary
beyond which things should not proceed.
Just as Huxley was intimating, even though I mangled his quote,
essentially it should not have gone this far and it must go no further.
And obviously what he's talking about is the radical and effectively unavoidable, right?
You can't just turn it down.
Transformation of his waking consciousness under the influence probably of Mescommon.
Even myself, though, there's a boundary where if relatively ordinary,
I remember one time I was praying to the sun this afternoon.
And I was very sincerely praying.
I was almost crying. I was very upset because I felt that the spirit of the sun had abandoned me.
So I was calling out to the sun in my heart and I could see it.
I was on my back porch.
In a way, I'm having kind of an experience at the moment.
So I was praying to the sun and suddenly it was as if I was having a vision in the special place
in my mind where insight and visionary experience happen.
And I think of it as a place, even though clearly it's not a place,
but I could locate it where I think it is physically.
I just don't think it's physical, right?
These are all...
What is the word?
These are...
Ah, the word will come to me.
These are common prosaic, right?
These are the prosaic ideas that I do have.
I just don't trust them.
So I had this vision. The sun seemed to be showing me what it's up to.
One of the things it does that's very important around here
that the humans don't know about.
That was a strange emphasis.
And the sun seemed to be showing me that it was manipulating a complex manifold in a crucial way
that structured and supported the...
Oh, I get it. It's Sunday.
That's the motorcyclist's procession that you hear in the background.
I guess I'm going to let it go on and not meet the mic, so bear with me.
The sun showed me this impossible...
A thing you could never imagine if you spent your life trying.
And it showed me features of it, why they were important,
and what their results were in the solar system and on our world.
And to say my mind was blown would be a wild understatement.
This was like nothing I imagined to be possible.
