And many, many years ago, probably four years ago now, and I talked to a guy on the other end and picked up the phone and I said, I'd like to get a personal pizza, blah, blah, what I want on it.
And he tells me, you know, 17 bucks. And I said, for a personal, he goes, yeah, the price went up.
Okay. So I never went back and I never checked to see if it was wrong. I just believed that the price had doubled because lots of other prices doubled, right?
Or tripled. And so for years, I didn't go in.
And then the other day I was talking with the same guy, Joe, the owner of Pasquale's Pizza on 8th and Irving in San Francisco. Give him a little plug there. The pizza's good.
Yeah, I was talking with him outside. He said, I haven't seen you. I said, yeah, yeah. So I didn't tell him why at that time. But I went in later and just asked, you know, how much for a personal pizza?
And I said, wait, what? I thought, you know, and somehow that topic is appropriate.
He put cheese in my hand. That was ridiculous. Now my hand is all greasy. And I have to find a way to wipe it without spreading the grease.
Thankfully, I have some napkins.
I have some tissues. Now where was I?
Yeah, you know, the dreaming context is like, it's so many different things. It's very profound, the dreaming intelligences, in my view.
Some neuroscientists will argue with me.
But the dreaming intelligence is very profound, very ancient, very powerful, very non-ordinary, and can help us learn to experiment with not flipping out when novelty arises.
And I want to be very clear that I'm not suggesting people do psychedelic drugs or even sing their praises by bias in this matter.
Is that we should have what I call endogenous experience of the non-ordinary, meaning without the introduction of intoxicants, particularly strong intoxicants, because those things force us across the boundary.
What I was saying earlier is that, like the first number of times that I smoked pot, I did not get high. Why was that?
Later, when I was a runaway, my closest friend was an aficionado of injectable drugs.
Primarily, coke and meth.
And I tried full doses of both of those drugs. They had no effect on me.
One would imagine that if you inject the correct dosage of meth into a 98-pound 14-year-old boy's arms, if someone's doing that to me, because that's what I'm describing here, with my complicity, I wanted to get high to find out what this high was like.
But imagine that that's just going to have a mechanical effect.
Well, three attempts, no effect.
Two, with cocaine, no effect.
Snort the drug, total effect. Inject the drug, no effect.
And someone could say, like, ah, you didn't hit the vein or whatever, but they're wrong.
They're wrong about that.
Thankfully, I like to think that something was protecting me from an experience that would be so compelling that I would continue chasing it.
I was vulnerable to various forms of addiction, which probably started with sugar and fat, and then moved up to tobacco and weed, and weed was, you know, in my teenage years, a drug of choice.
But again, what I'm arguing is that what we want is endogenous experience, and there are lots of ways to make that happen that are easy to access.
We want endogenous experience of the non-ordinary so that we are familiar with navigating the transition and so forth.
And also so that we don't become confused and think, oh, the drug, the drug is the doorway to enlightenment, or the drug is, the non-ordinary experience and the drug are the same thing, right?
Pause for a moment here.
That's a very dangerous confusion, right, because it's going to wrong foot consciousness in a variety of dramatic ways that are pretty difficult to come back from.
Not impossible, but tough.
And also, the non-ordinary experience produced by the drug, so you can imagine a kid who eats the mushrooms and goes to the mall, or, you know, eats the mushrooms and spends the afternoon playing a video game.
Or even a little better, eats the mushrooms and spends the afternoon making music.
You can imagine a young person doing this, and the difference between that and, say, an experience set up by people in a collective where Westerners come and pay to experience some kind of a ceremony, perhaps in the jungle.
And the difference between that and what some indigenous tribe was doing in the jungle 8,000 years ago, 4,000 years ago, 2,000 years ago.
These are not the same thing, right?
The Western people imagine that it's the drug that is the cause of the non-ordinary experience.
They're not precisely wrong. They're incompletely correct.
Because it is a very complex manifold of relationships, anciently conserved relationships, that the indigenous people are reenacting, remembering, literally reconnecting.
They are re-ligne-ing.
Well, hand to hand.
Threat-parsing something that I...
Joe gave me some food with his hands, but that means I was willing to eat out of his hand, which was probably not a wise idea.
And, of course, one wouldn't like to refuse because that could be considered an insult, so I naturally accepted the food.
Threat-parsing that now.
So, yes, what's going on ceremonially?
Look, there's a very complex cloud of features and potencies and memories and histories and lineages that come together in an actual indigenous ceremony
in a way that is both natural, quote-unquote, and extremely old, possibly thousands or tens of thousands of years old.
So, that's not the kind of thing you can actually package and sell to moderns successfully.
You can package it and sell something to the moderns.
But unless they're...
If they are not...
If everybody isn't kind of all the way in,
the result of that behavior will not be ceremony.
It will be something else.
And it will lack many dimensions of richness and depth that actual ceremony almost never lacks.
It's almost impossible for that stuff to be missing there, mostly.
As modernity progresses, less impossible.
So, nonetheless, we are born with a broad array of faculties and abilities that only awaken in...
that are unlikely to awaken outside of ceremony.
Some people awaken them outside of ceremony.
These people we think of as psychic, or we have words for them.
Not necessarily intelligent words.
But yes, we have words for these people.
Sorcerers, witches, warlocks, mages, magi, kings, queens, princes.
Abatars, all these words, yeah.
So, I think we should learn to introduce each other gently to the non-ordinary...
from a position in where we go from ordinary waking consciousness into light, non-ordinary awareness.
The noticing of that, the exploration of that, the deepening of that over time.
Sort of like teaching a kid to swim.
I prefer the gentle version to the stories I've heard from some young men, usually men.
Where they're possibly drunk in Redneck Father, like through the Motha Bridge or something.
When they were five or whatever.
This is something we do not want to do with psychedelics.
Young men can be dangerously disoriented and think,
oh, it'll be really funny to watch Johnny go out of his mind if we give him LSD, etc.
Or whatever.
Yeah, in some cases Johnny never came back.
That can go wildly south.
Though probably in most cases it doesn't go too badly.
It sort of depends on lots of variables including how Johnny's consciousness is ordinarily structures itself.
Or doesn't.
But yeah, that's not a good idea.
You certainly don't want young teenagers who may have predilections for various modes of unusually organized consciousness
to be suddenly subjected to something that could set up a feedback process that doesn't come to a conclusion.
Lots of dangers there.
Including the danger of just associating ecstasy with intoxication.
Why are we prone to addiction as animals and so forth?
There's a variety of reasons, but the primary problem is that our ordinary experience is not engaging
and does not call us into being and into meaningful roles and learning and play and discovery and adventure.
It's kind of dead inside the whole modernity thing.
And so obviously we can learn to displace the desire for fulfilling roles and meaningful agency into intoxication.
Or, what's the right word?
Nervous habits, right? Depiliation pulls their hairs out.
I think that smoking cigarettes is not entirely dissimilar because it's both very, it's extremely compelling.
It causes a break from whatever stimuli, right?
Especially these days, you used to be able to smoke while you work or eat or whatever.
Nowadays you've got to go outside to smoke in most places.
It enforces a break from, and there's a sort of a very powerful feeling aspect of intimate self-relation that is similar to like if you were depiliating some part of your body.
We're picking at a scab.
So I think it's compensatory.
What we're trying to do is sort of like there's a desert inside us.
There's this time interval that we don't know how long it will be where there's a profound impoverishment of relation with self, the world, and other with identity and so forth.
This leads us to a coping mechanism, right?
It's not dissimilar in a way to, it sort of reminds me of the yolk of an egg, right?
You've got to go through this process where you'll develop inside the egg.
Of course the yolk of the egg is probably natural and good and whereas the tobacco is not, particularly the kinds that we use in cigarettes and so forth.
So yeah, there's this sort of coping thing which was clear to me long before, because from my own inquiries into addiction, it became very clear that it was a coping mechanism to cope primarily with lack of nourishing, rejuvenating social and behavioral intellectual and creative endeavors.
Okay, what am I going to do about that?
So I could just turn it off, I guess I will.
So yeah, I don't want people to have the impression that psychedelic drugs are the light switch to enlightenment, which they certainly aren't.
I want to talk to a lot of people who've done psychedelic drugs, run some of the numbers, how many of these people seem like they're enlightened or can even say anything really meaningful about their psychedelic experience or give us insight or whatever.
Very few in my experience. Not none, but few.
So yeah, I'm not sure I'm all the way in on that.
You know, there's some question as well whether we can just, certainly we can curate ceremony-like activity together. What you can't do, I think, is invent something that's 40,000 years old.
Like it turns out that the incredible antiquity, the genius loci of time and place can be honored, but they can't be invented.
So there are ways to experience and pursue learning and understanding and awareness and growth and non-ordinary experience together that are relatively virtuous if they're good.
But the ancient traditions have, you know, like 50 features that you can't just make up.
You can't just go like, well, if they did it this way and we do it this way, it should work because it's a machine. That's not how those things are.
So we should honor ancient traditions, I think, and authentically with reverence and humility, if we are so inclined, approach the keepers of those traditions
to see if we can have a role in their rejuvenation and their sustenance and their survival in human experience, you know, where we're reasonably appropriate or not directly inappropriate.
And we can also invent ways of structuring, entering the non-ordinary, the spiritual, the ceremonial, the ancient lineages of relationships together that is intelligent and insightful, reverent and playful and beautiful.
And that is certainly what I hope for in my own life and in my relationships with others who are similarly oriented.
I have traveled many branches. Thank you for those of you who stayed the course with me.
I'm so grateful, as always, to share this time together.
I wish you beautiful everything in your life, your life path, your relationships, your home, your dreaming, the economic concerns.
And that I fundamentally wish for beautiful adventures for you and those you love.
And I look forward to learning together again sometime soon.
Bye-bye for now.
