and impossibly ancient relationships, then I'd probably become capable of cities, right,
superhuman, categorically superhuman behaviors, senses, abilities, so forth.
And this is part of what I argue that we should and must explore together.
We must retrieve together the possibilities of our humanity that have long been occluded
by language, culture, thrips, corporations, war machines, propaganda, quote, civilization, unquote.
But even I, when faced with novelty, happened to me a couple times recently where
I found myself in the presence of a physical phenomena, a small one,
that I could not immediately categorize, or I couldn't immediately completely categorize.
So in both of these cases...
I want to like lightly study, like, March and all the other things.
So I could tell in both cases that what I was probably looking at was an insect.
In the first case, the behavior of the insect was so novel
that I had the beginning of that feeling Huxley described.
I am fascinated by insects.
I've spent good chunks of my life in amateur study of them.
I adore them.
I pay attention to them. I notice them.
So the first situation was an insect behaving in such a way that I could not understand,
A, what kind of an insect it might possibly be, and B, what the hell it was doing.
And C, it also had the aura that the dancing male crane had.
Ah, this is magic. This is powerful.
This is supernatural. This is non-ordinary.
Who is it in his little book on language, I think?
It might be called language and myth.
Ernst Casaray talks about the creation in an African culture
of what he refers to as a tro, T-R-O.
And I'm not sure where he's getting his data from here.
It sounded like he actually went in person to talk with the people of the tribe he was speaking of.
But essentially it's something he would call a momentary god.
And this is anything that left a profound impression on someone.
Probably almost always in that culture a male.
But like, let's say you're extremely thirsty, you're dying of dehydration,
and an animal leads you to a place to dig and you find water there.
It is a tro. Or you...
There's a series of shocking events that take place,
and it seems to you that it is because of this tree right here.
That these things take place. This is what I felt.
I felt terror for a moment.
A very brief moment when I saw the insect doing what I had never seen an insect do.
My rational mind went into what the fuck is going on?
What is that? That can't be true. That can't be right.
I've never seen that. This is taking things too far.
This is too far to take things.
For a moment.
Now what it was doing was hovering, half hovering,
in a sort of...
What is the word?
Half hovering in the pattern of a lemniscate, a lemniscate pattern,
a figure eight, except with teardrop sides rather than circles.
Yeah, I was hovering, slightly hovering and moving over the carpet in the hallway under a lamp in this pattern.
And over time it calmed down. I got a jar.
I put the jar over it. I put paper under the jar.
And when it completely calmed down, it was clear that it was some form of a cricket.
And I believe that I rationally now know what was happening, which was that
the presence of the light and in the nighttime triggered it
in a way similar to how the full moon might otherwise trigger it
to spread pheromones and attract mating companions.
Now do I think that quote is what was happening? No.
In representational cognition, in the aspect of mind that thinks about cause and effect and mechanics and so forth.
Yes, in that layer, not a bad probable description of what was happening.
Even though I don't actually know what the creature was doing.
And at first I couldn't tell that it wasn't injured.
It wasn't clear that it wasn't a flying creature that was failing to fly.
So as I continued to observe it, I went through the phases similar to what my friend went through.
I was extremely puzzled, but the fear wore off pretty quick because the scope was narrow enough
that it probably wasn't going to threaten everything I'd ever known.
And it wasn't going to invalidate all the decisions and categorical derivations I'd ever made.
It had a limited scope, I realized fairly quickly.
I could categorize it, it wasn't an insect.
But at first I did feel fear because I couldn't figure out what my own role was.
When I encounter something that I don't know what it is, this calls my own identity into question
because we enact identity together.
We become who we can become together whether we think so or not most of the time.
And so experience draws like there's a negotiated, a rhythmically negotiated, a rise of identity in circumstance.
Joe thinks he's Joe, he just got home from work, he takes a shower, makes some tea, reads a book,
he's listening to Bach, he's very calm, he knows who he is.
Suddenly guys in battle armor with AK-47s bust through his roof come down on strings and point guns at him.
Is Joe the same Joe that he was a moment ago? Absolutely not.
Context calls us into role behavior.
And if we change the perspective of context, if we change our orientations within context,
which we certainly have the volitional ability to do, then we become different kinds of beings
and different versions or modes of our possible selves.
So part of the problem, the fear of sudden, the onset of extreme unexpected novelty,
is that it not only causes us to question if it's broad enough, all historical derivations and activity,
it shatters our own sense of coherent identity for ourselves.
And maybe this is part of what is meant by when I say the phrase, it is powerful.
Which I mean in a ceremonial sense, not in a representational sense.
I don't mean it's like PG&E, and yet that connotation isn't bad
because the association with electricity, thunder, lightning is very strong.
It is powerful.
So yeah, what happens when we suddenly encounter unexpected novelty?
Now obviously, one of the things that will almost always happen in a,
this often happens anyway, in lucid dreaming experiences,
is that as the mode of awareness begins to shift toward lucidity,
there's a pretty good chance right at that boundary that the manifold will collapse and we will wake up.
But we can learn by practicing, presuming that we can practice our way to awareness in the dream state,
which certainly if anything is a spiritual practice, this thing is, or is one of them.
If we can practice our way to awareness in the dream state, we can learn how to sort of turn down the volume on
how to kind of slide into the manifold sideways rather than directly penetrating it from above.
And by the way, similar things are the difference between a planet that gets snuffed by an asteroid and one that doesn't.
Like angle of approach turns out to matter a lot in all kinds of human and biological situations.
But yes, so if we learn how to, we can learn how to sustain awareness in such a way that it doesn't cause the bubble to pop so to speak,
then lucidity will arise.
And in that situation, what we will almost certainly experience is an upsurge in novelty,
a transformation of color, senses, relational feelings, depth in the dreaming experience.
For some people it becomes ultra vivid, for others there are oral transformations, right?
There are sounds in one dream I had recently where I was on the verge of it I could taste flavors,
which is pretty uncommon for me in dreaming experience.
But yeah, that's a place where we can experiment with relating with novelty in consciousness.
Dreaming is really profound in that it's basically...
I wouldn't say that what we can learn and explore in dreaming is without consequence because it's not.
But it's very different from a situation in which there are physical, relational and economic consequences,
perhaps spiritual consequences, metaphysical consequences in some cases, depending on what we mean by the word.
The way that the waking world seems to be.
Now you can play the waking world as if the consequences are not trenched.
And there are some forms of play in which you can do this with relative safety, a degree of safety.
But ordinary physical existence is fairly fraught with danger, what we call danger.
Someone who has transcended the foundations of fear is likely to appear extremely courageous.
But it's not so much that they possess the quality of courage as it is they no longer enact the impediments that comprise fear.
And that's a really important thing, like in one of my recent videos on temperance,
I talk about the difference between stuff we have to do to be good and stuff we have to not do to have the opportunity to become good.
Because you kind of have to not poison the water first before you make the soup, and if you poison the water first,
now you have to introduce complex antidotes before you can drink the water, or others can drink the water, so to speak, metaphorically.
And I think there is such a thing as courage.
There are behaviors that are bold and courageous. They have the positive quality of being courageous.
And yet, at the same time, there is something like fearlessness, which is sort of that the possibility of fear is so limited that it cannot form up, it cannot restructure consciousness.
Oh my God, the owl must be huge.
Well, there's that thing again, right?
I'm like, wow, bigness, big bird-ness.
The other day, this is really ironic.
On the very day that, I think I was making a recording, it was about this time of the evening, getting dark, and someone was driving at relatively high speed,
backwards, up one of the roads in the park here.
And at first, part of me took a fence, and was like, what the fuck is that guy doing?
What the fuck is that guy thinking?
Or that driver wasn't sure of their gender, presumed they were male.
And then, immediately I realized, I'm probably more disoriented than that guy is, because instead of paying attention to what I'm doing, or acting in a purposeful, intelligent fashion,
I've decided that I'm like the local normal behavior cop, and I need to call this guy out and sort of write him a ticket in consciousness,
which means I am completely defecting from my own way of life and being in the moment.
In effect, I have become an idiot by thinking that somebody else is an idiot, or acting crazy.
An idiot in the old Greek sense of, in a private universe, not connected with the beings around us.
So, I had this thought, and I found it hilarious to imagine, that at first, that my sort of self-righteous indignation,
what's this guy doing?
You can see onset of unexpected novelty. Novelty is in this case of the category, behavior of an unconnected human, seemingly unconnected to me, unknown, random human.
My response is policing, what the fuck is that guy doing?
This person has clearly gone out of their mind. Up with this, I will not put. We should not put.
This has gone too far. That's going too far.
You can hear this weirdly entitled, like Arbiter, of what is reasonable and not reasonable.
Arbiter of, up with what we shall put or not, taking over my mind.
And so, I collapse in a sense, the manifold of my possibilities collapses into this one thing.
And ironically, the same night, my son called me, and he was talking about the same problem.
And we had a long, hilarious conversation, because we had both noticed in our own, and in both of us, it had to do with observing another driver, particularly.
Someone who's driving. And we had both noticed our predilection to, it's okay.
We had noticed our predilection to convert to judges, and then think that there's this weird sort of self-importance that goes along with the conversion process in most of us, much of the time.
Where we feel that we are being somehow righteous, or in the know, or correct, or virtuous.
You know, we are enacting the, protect the group instinct, protect others' instinct.
And so, perhaps even we think we're being here, like we may have delusions of heroism and stuff like this, right?
And so, it was so funny to have this discussion with my son on the very same day, when the same insight had occurred to me, post-reaction to sudden human behavioral novelty.
You know, scope is relatively limited again. It's not going to change everything I ever thought or did.
But what happens when the structure of consciousness itself radically transforms during experiences of hypnopompia, hypnagogia, hypnosis, trance, non-ordinary intrusion into, you know, the sudden emergence of non-ordinary or super-ordinary phenomena, stimuli, etc.
into regular everyday waking consciousness. That stuff is unprepared for that, unless it has a lot of practice.
Hello!
You know, I am told by my friend Ryan Firstdiver that often in the sweats, and I'm not necessarily claiming that this is purely metaphysical, I'll explain what I mean.
But often in the sweat lodges, the men are literally terrified, like some of them are crying, if I remember what he said correctly.
They often, they're like losing it. They really believe they are about to die, and sometimes, some of them.
And this is nothing to be ashamed of. It's not something that's frowned on, I don't think. Though some, in actions of it, might be.
It's not necessarily probably that they think they're going to die. It's that they can't tell they'll survive, right, in a way.
I mean, maybe those are two faces of the same thing. But my point is that when we're unfamiliar with the boundary between the relatively normative world in which our representational thought, evaluation, and behavior functions well enough to keep us alive,
and confident of our own lucidity, sobriety, then we're okay. But when we get to the boundary and we're not used to being in the boundary, especially if we're going with others, that stuff gets pretty rocky.
And if we are thrust across that boundary, right, this is part of the problem with doing psychedelic drugs, is that you're not being guided to the boundary and familiarized with it, and then gently let across it.
Instead, you're being, it's like flipping a switch, right? Third toke of DMT, the universe disappears and is replaced by something absolutely unlike your common experience with some degree of resemblance, perhaps, to extreme lucid dreaming experiences or hypnagogic or pompic experiences.
Things get tricky near the boundary, but it's not necessarily, it's not usually a good idea to just push people across it.
Now on the other hand, drugs are a little weirder than we imagine. I don't know if there's anyone who drank ayahuasca and nothing happened.
Meanwhile, all the other people who drank the ayahuasca have, you know, experiences of it.
But I remember when I was young, the first few times I smoked weed, and I was fully capable of smoking weed because I smoked cigarettes.
So I knew what it meant to inhale smoke, and I knew what it meant to inhale the smoke and hold it, and so forth.
No response to my first experiences, probably the first six, nothing, no effect I could discern.
Seventh experience just could not stop laughing.
Total collapse of consciousness into extreme hilarity, in danger of, you know, urinating on myself. I was laughing so hard.
Don't think I actually did.
Uh oh, the natives are restless because of a sports game.
The monkeys are making dangerous noises and doing gorilla things and making fists and shaking them in the air and stuff.
Wow, that's quite a scene. By the way, that's a lot of novelty.
I think it used to take some courage for me to enter a place where people were doing something like that because as a sensitive person, that amount of noise and yelling.
And stuff is, uh, intense.
Deep it in there for a minute. Come on, Joe.
I'm just watching the pizza channel. I'm just watching the pizza channel. Yeah, I'll come back later and get a pizza.
Ah, okay, thank you.
Yeah, it was my loss. It was my loss. It was one of my favorite foods.
No, that's not what happened. I called. I called, I tried to order one. They're like, you know, 18 bucks. I'm like, 18 bucks.
There's a guy. And I'm like, personal, personal pizza? He's like, yeah, we, we, we increased the price.
Yeah, that's true. That's, that's my bad. Yeah, yeah, that's my, my bad.
But, you know, last time when I saw you, at least I woke up.
Yeah, yeah. What is your name? Joe. I'm Darren. No, no, no.
Now, now you're acting like we're in New York.
Yeah, of course. Of course. It's okay.
Yeah, everybody makes mistakes. We're human.
I'm glad to see you too.
And I'll be back later and get a pizza. All right. Right on.
You too. Thank you.
One day I called the pizza place. They serve these little personal pizzas that are delicious, right? They're like seven bucks. So it's cheap. And it's good. And so one day I called and I tried to order one.
