Although one thinks that if a man begins to pray to the sun,
then surely he will not be too surprised if the sun actually answers.
But since that is almost never part of my normative experience,
and my regular everyday consciousness certainly doesn't believe in that,
the aspect of my mind that believes in that is very different from my waking rational mind.
The rational mind is extremely threatened by the existence of such an other mind.
And someone, a therapist listening to me or a psychologist might be thinking
hilarious thoughts here like, oh good luck in this guy maintaining anything resembling coherent.
A coherent psyche or...
He's just going to continue to undergo various forms of schizo-genesis.
But it's not entirely true. There is sort of a truce between the two kinds of mind,
or the two aspects, and maybe each aspect has many sub-aspects.
But what happened immediately was, our rational mind said, no, absolutely not.
No, no, no, no, no, no. We're not doing that.
We are not going there like, what was Churchill's quote?
It was something like, perhaps you know what it is.
Up with this we will not put, right?
Yeah, that's my waking mind.
Fiercely, if I'd been riding a horse, it would have dug its front, we'd have been at a gallop,
we'd have been flying along, it would dig its front hose into the earth, lower its head,
buck its ass and catapult me into free space.
No, I'm not going there.
Totally put the brakes on.
And it might be useful.
We might need both kinds of cognition, but they can certainly play together better, more cooperatively.
And what ended up happening was, when I handed the vision off to the linguistic aspect of my rational mind
and said, here, what I need from you is to help me understand how I could explain this
or talk about this to other humans using language.
Once it realized there was a role for its kind of skill
and it's some of its finest articulations.
Once it understood, like, oh, I'm not being excluded, I have a very important role here.
This isn't going to just take over consciousness so that I get evicted.
Then that aspect calmed down and was perfectly happy with its new job,
which was to find some way to talk about the vision.
And that's something it was used to because it had practiced it long for a long time
during a nine-month phase of my life.
That wasn't my first embryogenesis.
Though maybe it was doing it then too, I don't know.
But yeah, it responds with terror sometimes.
But not always.
There are people who, under the influence of sudden inexplicable catastrophic novelty,
such as arises during lucid dreaming or perhaps the use of some psychedelics,
the occasionally intelligent use.
So there are some people who naturally submit.
They just immediately surrender to the situation.
And that's almost the explicit opposite of forming up against it.
There's a fallen tree.
It is evening.
The reflection of the branches of the tree forms a second tree in the reflection on the water,
seemingly on the water's surface, but it has depth.
It is dim, but not dark.
And the waves are making the lower tree, the reflection tree's branches, wave and pulse.
And that is an effect that must, for tens of thousands of years,
have been familiar to our ancestors as a portal.
Portal to what?
Well, a portal beyond your regular waking world consciousness
and into a variety of things, including other states.
Not states, other modes, yeah.
And multi-modes of consciousness, awareness, purposeful potential,
the possibility space of human consciousness.
So some people naturally relax into the sudden onset of extreme novelty.
Obviously, it seems very likely that death, whatever experience we may have or not have at death,
and let's be clear, this must probably resemble the very broad array of experiences
that we have falling asleep.
The whole library of different kinds of experiences.
We may call them all dreams, they're not.
That's like saying the word things to refer to objects that can be discerned by the mind.
The fact that you have one, oh, there it is.
There it is, there's what I was looking for.
Oh, and it's not what I thought it was.
Okay.
So I thought I saw a kingfisher the other day.
It looked a lot like one, but it's actually a wood duck.
Now, you can look at what just happened there, okay?
Experienced phenomena.
Other day, saw a bird, blurry, moving fast.
I thought, ah, it looks like a kingfisher.
And kingfishers are rare, so I was hoping to see a kingfisher.
First of all, the word kingfisher tells me nothing about the bird at all except maybe it eats fish, okay?
It doesn't help me understand any of the features of the bird.
And a language like this makes us dumber every time we use it because the language has some links,
at least connotations that give us information about who the bird relates with, what it does,
its sounds, its mating month, which moons it's active in, which ways in, all these things.
But something that just says, you know, blop, that's a blop.
It's going to make us dumber every time.
And admittedly, the word kingfisher has some connotations.
Very important, royalty, kingship, powerful, divinely mandated, or, you know, blessed, right?
And then fisher, which has lots of connotations besides just catches fish.
Fisher King in Christian-esque literature and so forth.
So it has a few.
Wood duck has almost none.
Some of the words in English still have something left in them.
It's not just blop, but it's not much compared to older languages.
I mean, older languages had the opposite problem.
Swarming connotation webs would come to mind in a language where each letter has a spelling,
each letter has six different numbers associated with it under different conditions, you know, and so forth.
But yes, the sudden onset of novelty often casts us into a crisis.
That crisis tends to resolve in one of three ways.
What would these three ways be?
Let's see.
Well, imagine what they might be.
I'll give you a few moments.
Try to imagine what usually happens to human minds when they're suddenly faced with monumental novelty.
See if you can come up with three distinct responses.
There's probably seven or 15 or a thousand or something, but let's go for three.
So one is relatively well-known to older audiences, 30s, 40s, 50s.
It's very common for young women when they actually see the human males that comprised the rock band, the Beatles.
It apparently undergoes such a radical and sudden cascade of internal stimulation and thus feedback in their nervous systems
that they would lose consciousness and just fall over unconscious, fall down to the ground.
And sometimes on moss.
Wow.
A male is approaching.
A giant male heron is approaching his nest.
I wonder if he'll dance.
I wonder if he'll signal to other herons that can see him.
Now he seems to be relaxing.
There's a little bit of dance there.
Extending the neck high with the neck feathers spiked out.
And then a shake and then a call and then relaxing.
I'll tell you a secret about the geese that even the ornithologists don't know and they wouldn't believe it.
You can tell which one of those is male and female visually the same way the geese do, but there's nothing in the literature about this.
You see the way that the white sticks up on the butt of the front one? That's the male.
And you see how the other one is relatively level? Yeah, that's the female.
And I once tried to explain that to an ornithologist and he got very upset.
Like, there's no literature about this. There's nothing. Nothing.
My pleasure.
I got a bit distracted by the lake and the heron.
I once saw his dance and I knew in the non-rational aspect of my mind, I knew this in a sense is...
This is a magical thing. This is not necessarily supernatural but qualifies for the connotation web of that word.
It is powerful and not in the way that rational things or mechanics are powerful.
And I learned a little bit of how to emulate parts of that dance by watching that one time, the only time I've seen it.
So, okay, sudden onset of novelty. What happens? Unconsciousness, fear, which, let's face it, very metabolically expensive.
Not likely to resolve the situation because it will produce feedback around the features that are most troubling in awareness.
Where I begin by reacting to phenomena, to a phenomena, but quick, very shortly thereafter, I'm actually reacting to my own reactions to phenomena.
Now I'm in bad trouble because now it almost doesn't even matter if the phenomena goes away.
I'll keep reacting to the reaction, to the reaction, to the reaction for some time, for some interval of time.
So terror slash anger, right, like fright, flight, fawn, freeze.
Now it turns out that the fawn response tends to lead to...
Fawning tends to lead to surrender.
Fright, flight, freeze tends to lead to further self-stimulation.
One might imagine that the unconsciousness of the girls who saw the Beatles guys...
I mean, women have fainted for all kinds of reasons. My mother once fainted in a grocery store in the afternoon.
Probably a blood pressure problem.
At least, you know, this is what my mechanical thought imagines.
So then, of course, the third option is fascination.
What? Co-emergence with the experience.
Self becomes actively emergent.
It co-emerges with the experience.
It neither forcefully differentiates nor merges.
There is an elision, a lighting sort of quality as if the experience and what is emerging co-conduct each other, right?
In the sense of how a conductor, how a symphony may sometimes relate with a conductor,
when they are both skillful and they are really doing what they appear to be doing.
Honestly, I'm sure conductors are going to be really mad at me for saying this,
but I had a close friend who was a conductor when I was in my early 20s.
His name was Granville.
And I always thought it was never obvious to me that conductors were doing anything that was actually necessary
to cause an orchestra to become coherent.
A quartet can do it.
The idea of the conductor seems a typically western monarchic, you know.
Hang on.
Monarchic, hierarchic.
Masculocentric. I mean, I could go on.
It just seems egregiously unnecessary.
Now, conducting is one of the aspects of the creation of music that I have not studied.
So I don't know what is actually going on there.
I do know that it's relatively difficult
to learn and requires something resembling the skill of the pianist where
you must do two different things with each of your hands and arms.
You have to be able to have one rhythm with your left hand and a distinct rhythm with your right,
though it is not always the case during the inaction of conducting behavior that this is happening.
It just has to be able to, you have to be able to do it because it will be required.
This is one thing I believe.
And I'm still not sure that conducting is necessary for symphonies.
I very much suspect that the symphony could have a team of leads.
The leads could work together to signal somehow if signaling is even required.
Oh wow, there's another blue heron doing its circabiation of the nest.
They're so huge, their wingspan.
Well, I guess that's only true compared to most of the birds we see.
See, that's the weird thing about comparative consciousness, right?
It compares, but it uses standards as its comparators.
Now if we were to suddenly intentionally change those standards,
oh shit, here come the motorcycles again, dang.
If we were to suddenly change those standards, all of our derivations would be different.
If the standard for gigantic is 19 feet of physical wingspan,
then most of the birds are microscopic and the herons are, you know,
modestly unsmall or something.
So yeah, the comparators we select, this is why humans often, especially in language,
they will say, well you know most people, XYZ things they think are true of most people.
But they have never examined most people.
What they're actually talking about is how they think about most people
and how most people are inclined to think about most people.
They've heard most people saying about most people and so forth.
The worst common denominator problem.
You know, the actual novelty of what is happening in my own body over one second of time
is probably staggering enough that if a hundred thousandth or a millionth of it
were suddenly available to my conscious awareness, I would fall unconscious.
It would overwhelm, it would blow the breakers.
It would blow the breakers.
Or if I could learn to maintain consciousness
under the influence of like a millionth of that actual physical manifold of novelties
