Hey everybody. So I am not in my usual haunts down at Fisherman's Wharf. This is
the giant prison complex for people to, I don't know, be trapped in.
That's I think Angel Island and you can see a bit of Alcatraz out there. That's
the bay. This is the giant prison complex that overlooks it. I mean if you look
around here what you're gonna see is mostly just boxes, right? Boxes with
windows. There's a dragonfly. Nice sign of life.
Effectively, cities are traps for human beings and they're deadly to living
things in general. Though there are some synanthrope, creatures and organisms
that thrive where humans are. Yep. Crows, ravens, blue jays, magpies, rats, mice,
cockroaches. Let's see what else.
Those. Joggers. Seagulls, raccoons, opossums, mosquitoes, bedbugs, fleas,
ants, various species of beetles, book lice, lice, what else, sparrows, blackbirds,
starlings, tourists. Let's see, I guess I'm gonna cross here. Extremely expensive
automobiles. I saw, I don't know, a Ferrari last night when I was coming home
that was probably, I don't know, a $250,000 car and it probably had nitro in it
because it was spitting fire out of its tailpipes explosively.
Of course, you know, the humans plant these trees and I think the trees in the
city, we've got something going on here. Not sure what it is exactly. Could be
pulling this tree out. Doesn't look good. Doesn't look good. Or no, maybe they're
putting one in. Yeah, it looks like they're putting one in. I see the trees in
the city as heroic, as saintly, angelic. They're giving, they're giving their
lives, trapped in cement. Very few symbionts get down under that cement. It's
hard to build a microbiome in such a, how should we put it, in such a vacuous
environment, right? There's a life vacuum everywhere here. It's pavement, cars, boxes
and buses. How did I get trapped here? That's a long story. It involves some abuse
by the San Francisco Police Department, but that's certainly not the only causal
factor. Some of my own choices, decisions, responses to situations got me stuck
here. I used to be a kind of a hero here in that I would go around every day
downtown and fix computers and set up networks for Apple products. I've been
servicing and repairing and learning about Apple products since they were
invented and I'm a Mac expert still to this day. Although my expertise is
slightly dated. I can still solve damn near any problem I can find. That's a
software problem. I'm not a hardware guy. Though I used to be able to fix hardware
too, back when you could open shit up and replace components. Yeah, various bad
things happened. Probably not that useful to run through the history, but I got
stuck here. I've been here now for about 28 years, I think. Wild guess, but I think
that's about what it was. It's a rough place to live for a person who is
really in touch with nature. It also gets harder and harder as one gets older.
I was probably among the first waves of tech entry coming into the city. I mean,
I'm sure there were waves before me, right? There were telephone tech people,
there were cable tech people, there were electronic or electrician tech people,
there were plumber tech people, lots of different, lots of different tech
vocations. But the computer tech vocations eventually overwhelmed the
majority of the population, right? We became the most profuse and perhaps
dynamic population. When I first came here, I was publishing an art and
literary journal called Cyanosis. You can get a copy from me if you really want one.
I did that. I made two issues. They took thousands of hours each to build and
produce. I did it almost entirely by myself, with the exception of the
contributors. And my editor for issue two, Daniel Davidson, who committed
suicide shortly after contributing his services to that issue. Dan was a very
interesting and aggressively intellectual cat who had a heart valve due to
suffering damage during an operation where he was infected with hep C.
And so you could hear Dan's heart and it would just go click, click, click, click,
click, click, click. I'm not quite that fast unless he was really upset. But I used to,
I would say like,
that was my Dan Davidson impression. We used to kind of joke about that.
He was very mischievous, playful, but severe. And we were friends. He was a poet and writer who
I published in Cyanosis. There were many brilliant poets and writers here in San Francisco at that
time and actors and musicians and all kinds of people. There probably still are,
but I think they're buried because it's pretty hard for us to get housing in places like that.
And it can be a little loud here to put it mildly. Apparently people think that
machines that make rapid consecutive explosions are somehow, how shall I put this, charismatic?
Of course, I think exactly the opposite. I think machines that make loud explosions should
explode. Like there should be a significant chance of explosion every time you use them.
Or maybe implosion so that it only kills the person using it.
Yeah, poets and writers, musicians, dancers, performance artists. We have difficulty
affording places like that, right? But people that work at Facebook and Google don't have so
much trouble. And even back when I was a technician, I used to make fairly amazing money by myself.
Though that was a long, long time ago. And I took a lot of hits. Eventually one of them
knocked me down, one or two of them knocked me down in a really bad way. So that pretty much
ended my vocation as a technician. I'm presently walking home from returning a rental car.
That was a bit of an adventure. I rarely drive.
And I've been on a trip
and just got back last night. Thankfully, I was able to find a parking space in my neighbourhood
so that I didn't have to get up too early to return the car. One of the nice features of living
in a city is art. And this is kind of a cool piece.
Notice the five symmetry here. Five fingers. Each finger with three joints except the thumb,
which has two. We could call those fingers working members in the thumb of thinking member.
The legs have three segments. They end in star appendages. The arms have three segments. They
end in star appendages. And the thinking member has two segments and contains the primary sensing
organs that would be very difficult to imagine if we merely saw a hand. I suggest that this
organizational structure, which some might refer to as a fractal, that would be unfortunate
because once they refer to it that way, basically it becomes dismissed. The idea of a fractal is
used to dismiss certain forms of geometry that have implications so astonishing, so far beyond
fractals that they would wreck science. Very few people will ever have the opportunity to understand
anything about that because it's the kind of thing that requires an experience of inner revelation
after long seeking, perhaps luck,
questing, or crisis. Crisis can bring out prodigy in human beings. Even the crisis of living
in such a lifeless, well, the city isn't exactly lifeless, right? It's filled with mechanical
life like those legs. They're not lifeless. There's beings inside them and beings have to die
constantly to support them and this whole bizarre mess.
So, I suggest that the hand's structure and the body's structure,
they're not merely fractaline, fractaline. If you see this, it doesn't suggest this.
There's nothing about the hand that would suggest eyes or ears or a nose or a mouth
or teeth or the animal inside my mouth.
This tongue thing, that's like an animal. I like to think of all of our organs as a complex zoo
and a family of creatures. Each with their own characteristics, behaviors, needs, functions,
relationships, vulnerabilities, all these things. So, nothing about the hand would suggest this
and that's the problem with the fractal metaphor. The fractal metaphor doesn't show that
upscale or downscale, you can get astonishing, unexpected, staggering,
um, integrative expressions of the character, potential, and history
of the downscale or upscale structures. So, my point is that we are like this
at the level of the body. There's an upper level that has extra senses,
shocking abilities, shocking senses, that really there are very few records of.
Some of the yogis might speak of what are referred to as cities, not cities, but S-I-D-H-I-S,
probably a Sanskrit word, Siddhis, and these are non-ordinary abilities.
But even the Siddhis are extremely limited compared to the actual dimensionality
and capacity of our extended being, the being that extends beyond the body
and even beyond time space into dimensions and forms that would obliterate our lexicons.
Were those lexicons exposed to them or were we exposed to them?
The traffic light, what a bizarre phenomenon. Think about it, every person you've ever met,
every accidental opportunity, every accident, every moment of luck in time and space and relation
was arbitrated by traffic lights. My parents met because traffic lights, if you think about it,
the time that you stop at a traffic light determines where you will be in the future
and where you will not be. So, our whole society, our lives, our deaths, our birds
are arbitrated by these bizarre machines. Earlier today, while driving, I saw a green light that
was all glitched out and digital glitchiness is a really trippy phenomenon. Resembling,
resembling problems in cognition like schizophrenia and grandiosity,
perhaps manic depression, a variety of other
deviations from what we think of as norms, even though norms are statistical and probabilistic
and actual human beings can never be that. It's impossible. So, it's weird, we have these ideas
about probability and extending characteristics or vulnerabilities or abilities over cohorts.
Now, there are motor vehicles on the sidewalk, which can easily kill pedestrians or cripple them.
So, yeah, we have this mathematical overlay. Language is also an overlay
on experience and cognition. The language and cognition, how should we say this?
For most modern humans, cognition is much broader than language, but language profoundly
impacts cognition. Oh, wow, I hear a long ass time ago. Oh, shit. I haven't been. I used to go all over
the city. These days, I tend to keep to a pretty modest little circuit. So, it's kind of weird for
me to be out here in the city proper, in the daylight, with all of the activity and noise
and boxes, boxes, boxes everywhere. It's interesting, you know, if you think about it,
each little box is a bit like a universe of its own or a world of its own that's connected
para-umbilically to all the other boxes and all the people. So, when you go, for example,
into that bank, you're going into a particular kind of womb, a particular universe that changes you,
it changes your role, it affects your destiny. It's a little world lit of its own and all the
little shops, they try to be inviting, right? And one imagines, or one may imagine, that this
feature of how humans build cities is analogous in some way to wombs,
to the place where we undergo gestation. And so, all these little stores and shops and buildings
and restaurants and infrastructure institutions, corporations, these are all bizarre impoverished
representations of worlds or potential incarnations. This is a property management building.
Our world is truly bizarre. Here's some more noise.
So, for a highly sensitive person like me, the city and all of its noise and machines
is a fucking nightmare, right? It's just new ways of getting stabbed in the face moment to moment.
I've put up with it for, like I said, about 28 years. And, you know, some people think like I'm
too sensitive or I'm not resilient. I've got someone particular in mind. In fact, I was extremely
resilient when I came here. But over time, this place burnt me down pretty bad. It took a lot,
but it got to me. Here's another place that people like me cannot live and really would not want to
live. I mean, look at that fucking nightmare. It's hideous. There's nothing alive about that.
I guess it's supposed to look like art, but if art looks like that, I'll pass, thank you very much.
So yeah, right now, for those of you who haven't been to San Francisco,
I'm on Van Ness and I'm returning from Fisherman's Wharf. This is Van Ness. A lot of these buildings
have been torn down and rebuilt. That building right there is very important to me. I wasn't
expecting to come across it today, but that building there, St. Luke's Episcopal Church,
we used to do Zazen there when I first came to San Francisco for like the first two years.
We had a Zen group that met there. Our teacher was Joe Bobro, kind of an interesting cat.
One of Robert Akin Roshi's students noticed that I call Akin a Roshi, but I don't do that with Joe.
Even though I was at his transmission ceremony and there's an important reason why I don't do that,
but I'll leave that story aside since it would be a little bit indelicate to tell it.
Robert Akin Roshi was a brilliant humanitarian Zen teacher. He learned Zen in a prison camp in
Japan in World War II. One of his Dharma heirs, John Tarrant Roshi, was my first Zen teacher.
Here's another building that has obviously been fairly recently, past 20, 30 years probably
rebuilt. Here's an actual building that matters and is incredibly beautiful.
Look at that gorgeous thing, even though it's again very boxy,
but that beautiful Mandala light circle is just amazing, just really amazing.
Probably getting to the populous area where
be good to wear a mask. This is really interesting. These first republic buildings,
they have these water features in them. This water feature is hypnotic. If you watch it long enough,
your vision will begin to warp and weave and change and breathe in a way that resembles
the experience of visual psychedelia. There are many features of water that are like this that
most people have never really noticed. They're really important features. To make this feature
work, you have to follow the flow down and then go back up and follow it down again and then go
back up and follow it down and then over time your vision will transform, literally transform.
One thing I do like about the city is the incredible diversity of peoples here.
I'm, unlike many intellectuals, I'm an anthropile, so I love humans. I love diversity. I'm friendly,
I'm soft. Oh wow, is this actually Guitar Center? Is this place open? Holy crap, place still exists.
Man, I'd kind of love to go in here, but I don't think it's going to happen today.
Hmm, I'm kind of glad it's still here though.
People are looking at me funny, but that's okay. I'm not tripping.
Oh yeah, another sin and throat. I'm very fond of the pigeon, which is actually a form of dove,
rock dove. So where was I? Oh yeah, Zen stuff. Yeah, we used to sit Zazen there. I was the
Giki for a while, and my old roommate, Nick Otavio, met him there. Kind of a weird cat actually.
But it was a really good experience to have that church to sit in. There's a giant,
what is it called? There's a giant bell. I can't remember what they're called.
It's a very particular kind of bell that could also, it's a huge black like metal pot.
And that bell is so powerful, it can ring the whole building. And it came from Japan and apparently
was associated with someone, if I recall correctly. What is that thing called? It's right on the tip
of my mind, but I can't quite get there. Often when you're stuck in a situation like that,
the best thing to do is soften. Don't keep going at the thing. It may come back to me.
But yeah, there's a giant black bell in there that's old and from Japan,
and very beautiful, profound and rich.
So yeah, many nights of Zazen there. We used to sit
what, two periods every Monday. Back then I was dating a girl named Kristen,
one of the important loves of my life.
Memories. I've got some. But yeah, these days I don't know where the creative people are,
where the poets and writers and dancers and artists. I mean, there's a lot of artists here,
graphic artists, painters, people who draw. But it's hard for me to meet them back in the day
because I was publishing Cyanosis. I had a venue, right? To meet people. And I was young and dynamic,
had a car, could drive around, go to parties. God, there were some amazing get-togethers.
Big machines. Moving giant chunks of cement. It's really exciting. All for cars. I mean,
if you look, if you just analyze the space here, what you'll see is that most of it belongs to
automobiles, right? Almost as much as belongs to buildings. So in terms of quote, who owns what?
