because it was just too, too painful to undergo his bizarre spread the damage kind of attacks.
This was a, this is a common disease among intellectuals. They learn about something
that's wrong in the world and they go around yelling about it, yelling at people about it, as if,
as if to assert that ordinary common people have a responsibility to solve these things.
I'll give you an example.
I remember, so there was, there was quite a crew back in those days. There was,
see who I can remember. John McNally, brilliant writer, Jeff Conan, brilliant writer, love that guy,
even though he thinks I'm mad. Daniel Davidson, George Albin, genius, absolutely genius.
And most of these people are completely unknown. If I didn't mention Drew Gardner, him,
God, there's a couple other people whose names I can't remember. And these were, these were sort
of the local crew. And we organized, I mean, we used to spend a lot of time in each other's houses
and hang out. But we, but John McNally used to work at a place called Small Press Traffic,
which was a central hub for poets and writers who were published in small presses like my
magazine, Cyanosis. And I published my magazine and named it that. Cyanosis means you're turning
blue because you've used up the oxygen in your bloodstream. Oh, this is pretty.
Here's a little miniature paradise in the middle of the city. There's a beautiful Brugamensia
Ditura right there and also on the other side and right there. This is a giant Ginko Bilboa tree,
one of the oldest tree species, if I remember correctly.
Huh. Gorgeous. Is that an elm? I'm not sure. So
we used to hang out at Small Press Traffic and have parties and go to readings, write poems.
Anselm Berrigan and his brother were around Ed. They were incredibly, incredibly brilliant. I'm
sure Anselm is teaching in New York these days. I don't know what became of Ed.
I was close friends with Anselm. We did some writing together for a time and almost got killed
by my neighbor's dogs. Had a few adventures. I had some pretty amazing publication parties for
cyanosis. So let's see. Dan, an example. I remember one day I was a PC world working and I went to
South Park and Drew Gardner was there and he mentioned some horrifying atrocity that the
United States was participating in. I don't remember exactly where it was. It could have been in the
Philippines. And he just came up and said, like, do you realize that your tax dollars killed
like seven million people in the Philippines this year? I was like, Drew, I'm having lunch, bro.
What? You think I'm supposed to, how am I going to solve that, right? So this was the kind of
thing that Dan would do all the time. He had this sort of attack dog, intellectual mentality
where he seemed to feel that by attacking people with stories of horror or disaster,
violation, catastrophe, mostly, you know, caused by capitalism and the United States and so on.
But by attacking people with this, he was achieving some kind of moral superiority
or being a moral person. And actually most of what, the primary effect of that, by the way,
this is pretty trippy. She'd start here. So I think Dan would love this, right? This is really
beautiful. I should have filmed the whole thing. Here, let's start at the beginning. I'll walk
back down the hill. So Dan seemed to think that by yelling at people about bad things and atrocities
that they had really nothing personally to do with and couldn't personally affect,
he was somehow aping an activist. And really mostly what that did was cause people to feel pain,
confusion, helplessness, hopelessness, terror, zen.
And lots of other bad feelings. So it didn't fix things in the Philippines or Iraq or Iran
or anywhere else. It just made us all feel miserable. I remember one day during the Rodney
King riots, I went to his house. It was one of the last times I hung out with him. Not the last
time. He came to my house the last time. And he said, did you hear that cops are hunting
African Americans in LA? And I was like, Dan, are you fucking serious? And he said,
yeah, that's what's happening today. I heard it on the NPR. I said, Dan, do you think
that the left also has propaganda? And he said, no, it's, it's what's going on. That's why it's
on the radio. I said, Dan, come on, man. I mean, even if, even if some tiny insane cohort of idiots
is doing something that fucking terrifying and ridiculous and wrong, you can't go around saying
things like that. And we got in the big argument. I started crying. And I just said to him, look,
man, I can't do this. I can't, I can't live this way.
I don't want to fight with you. I mean, I'm just as, as liberal and, you know,
concerned about everybody as you are. But I can recognize the difference between propaganda
and what's actually going on. However imperfectly I may do so.
And you're just so inflammatory. See, that's really interesting. This is the kind of thing
you see on Hay Street all the time. Dan would love that. And I mean, the guy had a good heart.
Like he would help people. He wasn't a bad guy, but he was just too fucking severe.
So he over time became very isolated. And maybe in my own way, I'm not, not, not because of my
severity, but because of other things I've become isolated too. Oh, here's another little,
another little paradise, the Page Street Garden.
Here are all those birds. Birds are very happy here.
Those are the first birds I've heard in a while, though I heard some parrots earlier.
So yeah, I think I'm on Hay Street now and about six blocks up here is where Dan used to live.
One of the first places I came. The reason I was publishing my magazine, the reason I called it
Cyanosis was that the Republicans were attacking arts and education in the 1980s. And I saw arts
and education as the oxygen in the blood, you know, in our social bloodstream.
And I knew I could see what was coming, right?
So I published Cyanosis in an effort to give radical writers and artists and performers
a venue to respond. And it was a big dream. And I bit off way more than I could chew.
Oh, I'm on Page Street, not Hay Street. Okay. Well, that's okay for the moment.
Though I rarely walk on this street, I almost always walk on Hay.
And by the way, that's H-A-I-G-T, not H-A-T-E.
Right. And there's lower hate and upper hate.
And people make sort of some jokey signs about it. But anyway, so that was my idea in publishing
my magazine. I wanted to give artists and writers and performers and also scientists and doctors
and things. In my second issue, I had an interview with a neurosurgeon Francis Conley,
who's a brilliant woman, one of the first women neurosurgeons, as I understand it.
So, yeah, Dan.
It was a bit of a, I mean, I take it as a bit of a jab, what Dan did because
he was my assistant editor for the second issue of cyanosis. And when he killed himself,
he did so by suffocating himself. Obviously, he took some sedatives and then like,
sorry about the graphic nature of this, but he wrapped a, wrapped a plastic bag around his head.
I remember one day I was on the bus going to see Jeff Conant, our mutual friend, and
saw the coroner's van outside Dan's house. Didn't know what that meant until I got to
Jeff's house, then I found out what it meant. Well, I don't really want to end on such a dark note.
Many of us are still alive. Jeff's got a child. Jeff Conant, he lives over in the East Bay,
I think, somewhere that we may have moved by now. Oh, here's a little mini bookstore.
It's pretty awesome.
We have a lot of these around here. It's a nice feature of our varsity. And this is the hay.
This is the sort of the beginning of the lower hay. I'm going to be getting one of my favorite
meals down here. It's a cheese steak from the Metro Cafe. I used to live in this area when I first
finally moved to San Francisco after leaving Gia and spending some time again in Sonoma County,
where I'm from. I lived about eight blocks that way off of DeViz on like Broderick or something.
And I used to come down here all the time, had a girlfriend here eventually, Amy Ladotto. She was
amazing, Stanford student. She lived up the street near Dan. Her building burnt down one year after
we broke up, about a year after we broke up. Yeah, this is the lower hay.
Urban herbs. And I'm going to go get myself a cheese steak and stop by Dan's house and
have a little prayer for him. That was a tough day when we lost him. And even though I wasn't close
with him when he died, I still love the guy when he was one of my teachers and mentors.
So thank you for joining me on my walk through the city today. Hope you enjoyed it, even the grim
parts. There's lots of other stories to tell. I had some in mind. I wonder if I want to take
the time to tell one. Nah, I'll save that for another time. All blessings to you. May you be
safe and healthy. And may you and those you love no peace and well-being, joy, hope and faith in
your lives. Bye-bye for now, everybody.
First place I got my haircut in the city when I worked at the zip zap. And that led me to a party,
which was one of the first places I read. Made like 15 friends that night. Last story for the day.
Bye-bye folks.
