Machines and corporations, franchises and landlords. That's what this place is about.
Look at that big Honda sign. My goodness. Because we don't see enough Honda in the world.
We need more Honda. A lot more. Come on, people. Turn it up.
It's hard to know how many of these buildings have... It's funny, I went in this, I went in
this Honda place one time. By the way, just to be clear, look at how, look at how fucking empty this is.
Just like there's nothing in here. Nothing. This is a big, empty building with a lot of Honda
symbols. That's mostly it. One or two cars. Yeah, I was in there one time trying to buy a car many,
many years ago. Bevmo. Because you can't have enough beverages. There's no such thing as enough.
Okay.
Flat 195 delivery fee. Order in seconds, delivered in minutes. Download the app.
I probably could have been doing voice work. When I first came here, my goal was to become a
performance artist. I had a couple of heroes in that regard. One of them was Rindy Eckert,
who I think is absolutely fucking brilliant. And the Margaret Jenkins Dance Ensemble,
also absolutely fucking brilliant. There used to be this place
called Theater Arteau. I don't know if it still exists or not. And that was a hub of
intense, amazing creativity. There also used to be a place that's probably shut down now
called the Marsh, which was a place for solo performance in the mission.
Pretty cool. Small venue, very intimate, brilliant. Here's a lot of fucking buildings,
because again, you can't have enough boxes with squares in them.
So I hope you're enjoying my little walkthrough memory lane and
my orbital relations with memory and situation.
I love shit like this because it's really hard right now for human beings in lots of different
ways. And it would suck to be a child in this time or even a young person.
Most people's lives, at least in cities, are dominated by the device I'm holding in my hand,
furiously dominated. And that's a miserable way to live life.
But one of the things that very few people realize, and it's a terrifying fact,
wow, is this an actual barber shop? I think it is. Next level. There is no one in there. So yeah,
that's pretty next level. It's fucking vacant. That's about as next level as you can get.
Like most of our lives and most of the aspects of our lives that were once rich,
intimate, beautiful, playful, mischievous, adventurous, exquisite. Now they're next level instead.
Anyway, one of the things very few people recognize is that we are now in competition with
the data we produce. Surveillance videos, photographs, video cameras, everywhere,
endless amounts of analytic data produced by our electronic activity. That is
more important than our lives. Our government built a city in some
weird... Is this place actually open? Are they serving food in here? No, this place is dead.
This used to be a fun sort of a smorgasbord place. Tommy's joint. I don't know if you can see in there.
Kind of famous, obviously closed now. But yeah, we're in direct competition with the data we're
producing and we're losing. So first we were in competition with machines and buildings and
streets and we were losing that competition. But now electronic nonsense is more important
than living beings, particularly more important than humans. The government is probably far more
interested in preserving the data that I've produced, the analytic data,
the financial data and so on, than they are in protecting my life or my well-being.
And that's the process that's going to continue to accelerate and invade new dimensions of our
lives as furiously and as quickly as is possible. I think that's wrong and tragic and we should
resist that in any way we can together, with and for each other, for the history and future of life
on our world. This is a big adventure for me. Oh wow, here's the Tesla dealership. Never seen this.
Very Apple-esque.
This is kind of trippy. Here's the um
Here's the shell.
Here's the frame actually of the Tesla.
Technical miracle. Too bad we couldn't make some of those that actually helped humanity or
you know our intelligence, our capacity to live beautiful lives together, protect each other
and war and poverty and disease and homelessness and hunger. But instead we have extremely exotic
automobiles that you can buy and show off your wealth, privilege and ability to get the fuck
away from whatever might be bothering you. I'm remembering some quote from Wise Blood,
a film, great film actually, very strange, that was used in a song called Jesus Built My Hot Rod.
Starts out with nobody with a good car. I can't remember the whole quote. Like needs to worry about
anything. The only thing that matters is what you can get away from, something like this.
I really, I just can't remember it. I used to know the quote and quote it all the time but
it's been many years. Good car. I'm getting close to the street where I'm gonna head finally toward
my neighborhood. Here's another exciting city venue. Burger King. Because burgers and royalty
go together. And also here round table. This is another brilliant theft from Arthurian literature.
I'm having fun actually. This is kind of trippy. Big street. Lots of buildings.
More gigantic prison complexes.
I used to have keys to a lot of those. Some of these ones right here actually because I had clients in them.
I felt really important in a way. Not like ego importance but just
I felt useful, necessary, and that I had a meaningful role as a technician. Because I could
solve problems that would otherwise devastate people. I fixed machines all the time. I recovered
people's data. I remember people came one time from a design firm. Prop and Garin, when I first
met them, they came to me at PC World and they had a bunch of like 2 gigabyte data backup tapes.
They couldn't get the data off these tapes.
And I had a couple of drives that read these tapes. And I found a way to rebuild the directory on the
tapes and got all their data back. And I won them as a client. Had them as a client for many years.
Good old days. Oh, I remember a big adventure in this place. Wow. Holy crap.
Yeah. There used to be a theater in here. I don't know if there still is.
Yeah. Landmark theaters and BookSync, Opera Plaza. Yeah, I came here. So when I first came to San
Francisco, I was working for a place called the Gia Gallery. And we were funerary activists.
We were activists that helped people to deal with death and to plan their own funerals
and to avoid the rapacious profiteering of funeral directors and funeral homes.
Goods and services in the funeral industry, at least back then and probably to this day,
the profit margin on goods and services in that industry was one to 7,000%.
So I was working at this bizarre art gallery filled with coffins and urns that people could buy,
very reasonable prices, way out in like China Basin in the worst part of town.
And the first night I was there, not the first night, that's not true. Like maybe night,
I was living there. I had interviewed the people that ran it for my first issue of sinosis.
And there was an article on Gia in there. And they so liked the article that they
asked me if I wanted to manage the gallery. So I took the job, brought my musical equipment
and synthesizers there, set all that up in the basement. It had like a, it didn't have a kitchen,
but it had a shower in a bathroom. And so I lived there in the gallery filled with coffins. And
there was a basement that was like a dirt half block long basement, a huge basement.
And that basement was filled with coffin shells and it was downstairs.
And one of the nights I was there, probably a week or two in,
there were these three really amazing paintings.
One was of a girl falling into a well with two sort of Pisces like fish swirling around her.
One was a woman looking into a mirror who had no mouth and there was a child in the mirror behind
her. And there was a third painting that I no longer remember. I wanted to own those paintings
eventually, but one night I had a very powerful sleep paralysis event, which I didn't really
know what that was back then. And in that event, it was truly terrifying, but the beginning was
fairly safe, right? The paintings were mumbling to each other. I'm out in this gallery in the middle
of the night by myself in the worst part of San Francisco. It's all closed up, locked up.
The cop shop there was actually surrounded with barbed wire and like assault walls and shit.
Hmm. So the paintings begin mumbling to each other and I can tell that they're having a conversation
about me and they're talking about how I've come to the city in some way to confront, not just to
confront death, but on a quest to understand the nature of death. And then I've made this decision
and since I've made this decision, this is where the adventure will begin. And then there's like
some terrible banging sound followed by horrible screams, more banging, more screaming. I'm so
terrified. Actually, I'm so I'm so fraught that terror isn't even really an option. I'm beyond
fear. I'm in some bizarre situation I've never been in before. Because when you're out in the
middle of nowhere surrounded by coffins and paintings start babbling about death and there's
like there's a basement filled with coffins underneath you and there's nowhere to go and no
one to call, you don't really have the option of terror. So eventually, I mean I was frozen, I was
paralyzed because I mean I was actually experiencing sleep paralysis. That's a beautiful suit, sir.
It's a wonderful suit. Yeah, I was paralyzed and so I just sort of stayed there. There was a dog
staying there with me and the dog was not doing anything. It was a collie. Wait, was the dog there?
No, the dog wasn't there at night or if it was, it was in a different room. Eventually, I was able
to get up and turn the light on and the next day I talked to the owners. They had told me that people
had had experiences there, unusual experiences. And I went to see a film that I think was called
Truly Madly Deeply at that opera plaza the next night. I didn't stay at the gallery the next night.
I stayed at Alex Gia's house and in Truly Madly Deeply, if I remember correctly and I've got the
name of the film right, a woman's lover who's a musician dies and he brings his ghost friends
to meet her while she's all heartbroken about losing him.
And I went and saw that film and then the next night, the film sort of changed my mind about what
was going on. I saw the film at opera plaza where I just passed and wow.
Wow.
A lot of boxes.
And then I went back to the gallery and I made friends with whatever was there and I just said,
look, I am here. I am open. We can learn and grow and play together. We can dance together in the
night. I put on some music and danced around the gallery and spoke with whatever it was that was
there in a very welcoming and communal sort of intimate way.
Now we sit. Those are homes.
That nightmare is a place to live.
In a city built on the San Andreas Fault, people live in that.
Okay, we're gonna have some pretty serious noise here for a minute probably. We'll see how it goes.
Cars transporting cars transporting cars.
See, I went back to the gallery and sort of made friends
with the spirit of the place.
And after that, I had a fairly good run there. Things went well for quite some time.
How did that job end?
I got mad
at a funerary guide who worked at the columbarium
because he was actually just dicking me around about obtaining some earns that I really wanted
to have in our showroom. And I basically just told him, look, don't fuck around with me.
If you can get these earns really easily, you have the connection, just get us the earns.
Because he was, how shall I put this?
In a very
petulant way, he was fucking with me and trying to play power games with me.
And as an Italian who's kind of a no-nonsense guy when it comes to business,
I wasn't having it.
So I didn't blow up at him, but I did just kind of tell him what time it was in my view.
And he was really close to the owners. So, oh, this is kind of a trippy thing.
I don't know who painted all these locks. They didn't use to be painted.
But this is a sort of spontaneous artwork.
Heartlocks.
Here's a different kind of spontaneous artwork.
So, yeah, that's how I lost that job. There's a bit more to the story, but that's most of it.
Now I am sort of more properly on my way home, pretty hungry, haven't had anything to eat.
It's a long walk from Fisherman's Wharf to my house. I don't know how many miles, maybe
let me take a wild guess and call it six and a half with a lot of hills.
I have a lot further to go, and I will be passing Dan Davidson's house,
where I usually stop and say a little prayer for him. He lost hope.
He was a really brilliant writer, postmodernist. A lot of the poets and writers that I knew and
published were very much a part of the language movement in poetics in the 90s.
And weirdly, the whole pomo, which is short for postmodern scene, is the birthplace of what we
currently think, bizarrely in a way, what we currently think about and talk about as political
correctness. This grew out of a, how shall I put this, where I want to put it in a way that
makes a lot of sense and is clear. It grew out of an intellectually schizogenic fascination with
language. And you can see those roots in the imperatives that underlie the political correctness
movement, although those thrifts have become extremely complex, self-generating, recursive,
entangled. That shit's generating a nightmare, in my view.
But it comes out of the school of semantics, linguistics,
deep fascination with language, and its structure with signs, signifiers.
Language immersion preschool.
Interesting. I like the idea. If we could all learn multiple languages, we would all benefit
dramatically from that, because if you only have a single language, you can't triangulate on meaning,
and different languages have different connotation implications and dimensions.
So if you have multiple languages, you have a vastly improved capacity to entertain meaning.
It doesn't mean it will succeed, but it means you have the opportunity. Here's another place where
artists and writers probably can't live unless they're extremely wealthy.
But we used to live in places like that.
That's an old building, surprising that it hasn't been torn down and renovated,
but I'm sure it's extremely expensive. I think to live in San Francisco today, a survey said
that if you wanted to live as a single person in your own home, not in a home, but in your own
flat or apartment, you need to be making $180,000 a year minimum. Of course, I have a rent-controlled flat, so
I'm still surviving at the moment. Where was I going? Oh yeah, Stan Davidson, language poets.
So a lot of the poets that I knew were fascinated by the intricacies of language and the capacity to
perhaps produce non-ordinary states of mind and consciousness by manipulating language,
and this was a fascination of mine as well. Although eventually, this is a common theme for
me. I may start out very technical and having technical desires, but eventually I come back to
the heart, to lyricism, to intimacy, to beauty. So an example would be I wanted to be kind of a
shredder, a neoclassical shredder on the guitar, but eventually I became much more interested in
music that was slow and beautiful, ethnic, transforms the space, rich, deep, sometimes very
simple, and the same kind of thing happened with poetry. At first I started it out kind of as a
technician in a way, but I became a lyricist, I think, mostly. Can I make it across the street in
eight seconds? Maybe not. So Dan was a language poet and in the 90s they kept cutting the benefits
that he could get. He wasn't working any job. A brilliant scholastic though, a brilliant academician
in his own way. A very, very amazing writer, again in his own unique way. But he lost hope
as the benefits that he could get shrank and as his health problems became more and more severe,
damage to his liver from hep C, depression, isolation, drug use to some degree, mostly just weed,
I think, and maybe psychedelics. But yeah, he had a problem because he was so, so intellectually
severe that it was difficult. Many of us like sort of eventually pushed him out of our lives
