Imagine that the Earth is to time what stars are to light.
Okay.
Earth invents billions of forms of living time and then sets them in synergistic relation
with each other.
That creates something in time that's more than a flower and perhaps the most exquisite
unimagined things that humans have never conceived of.
The living world makes time.
Every single organism here is like a time star and their relationships produce synergies.
Machines are the opposite of this.
Dead time.
I like that.
Now, we can think of this as a science fiction story, but what I'm trying to get at is what's
going on is a billion fold more interesting than anything I can suggest to you.
Let's get a taste of that.
It's not that my suggestions are particularly interesting.
They come from having had my mind completely blown away by direct experience of the nature
of nature on Earth and its relation to time space and the sun and the moon, all of the living beings,
perhaps the divine beings, but certainly intelligences beyond our wildest imaginings.
Our science fiction is timid compared to what's actually going on here.
I'd love to get a taste, a deeper taste of that together.
Yeah, me too.
We're made for it, right?
Again, it's like fish returning to water.
This is the thing.
We were born for this.
Yeah, exactly.
Our entire evolutionary history supports this, not the representational overlay.
The whole evolution of life on Earth supports something like what we're pointing at,
not nothing like the bullshit we're told and the clinical derivations and the descriptions
and the hypotheses and the models, the explanations, the dissections.
It's the framing intelligence has gone mad in our species, right?
It wants to frame literally everything.
It will take pictures of people taking pictures of pictures.
You follow me?
Yes, I do.
It's happy.
It thinks that's great.
Let's have more of that.
Except I do want to say, do we think that's great because I just, in my encounters,
people aren't happy with this world of representation.
They want, I think, if they get a taste of what you're talking about so eloquently put,
which is helpful for me to understand what we're pointing at here, the way you put it.
It's like, I want that.
I want to start doing that now or continue, but with more passions, with more adventure.
There is an undiscovered universe that we are immersed in it right now, and we're largely,
most of the time, myself included, completely oblivious to it.
We're totally unaware.
We're not even capable of thinking imaginatively.
For example, that as the bees are to flowers, X is to living worlds.
But it must be so, right?
I'm not saying that's exactly what's happening, but something like that has got to be going on.
We've so framed the world that we think the Earth is framed off separate from time space,
can't be true, not possible.
But what I want to say to you is that if I'm just imagining,
so somebody hearing this for the first time, what you've just said,
I would like to imagine that that's the kind of invitation that you've been waiting for.
I mean, I mean, I'm just saying that.
Like, you know, attractively posed, sure.
Right.
Right.
And also in context, if I go to my neighbor and start talking about time space, that's not going to work.
First, we have to form agreements.
Right.
We have to form agreements.
They don't have to be litigious, but we have to have basic agreements about why we're here
and what we're going to be doing.
And probably the problem with humans is they substitute opinions for thought.
Now, see, I just did the bad thing.
I took the worst common denominator of the topological map.
Yeah.
Right.
So there's a good example.
Yes, that's a good example.
But of course, what I mean, what I'm referring to isn't actually individual humans.
It's the thing we think of when we think of the humans as a species.
Right.
And so then averages stand out to the mind and we make crude generalizations like the one I just made.
But the problem, one of our problems is that, especially here in America, circa 2022,
most people have opinions instead of minds.
And that's what we're trained to have, opinions.
Yeah.
The model is voting.
Since voting is the model and it's not really a communal thing.
It's an individual thing.
Yes, in group and out group form.
Yes, yes, but the model is voting in courtrooms.
So instead of having thought and imagination, we have opinions.
Tragic this.
We'd be better off mostly without them.
They're not extremely useful, except as social currency.
Yeah, yeah.
So in a group that we've actually put together, we might have some prohibitions about opinions.
I want to circle back briefly.
You mentioned we were talking about the Buddhist admonition against seeking powers and apparently
as you're rising up the sort of proverbial mountain side of enlightenment
or maybe falling down into the crevasses, there's a phase where powers arise.
And there's lots of reasons why they admonish us not to pursue that.
And they're very important reasons.
Until we have fully drunk, this is the simple explanation.
Until we have obliterated, until we have really obliterated I.M.E. in mind,
until the self has been thoroughly rendered not present.
Yes, the ego and the psyche will attach to these and it's very common for disastrous results to ensue.
There is a maniacal sort of behavior.
All kinds of different results.
The problem is that there is a membrane between the ordinary and the non-ordinary.
And the way that we open that membrane, the way that we open, quote unquote, the door in the sky
must be hygienic.
We have to be very aware of what does not belong in here.
And there has to be some useful intelligence about what not to do.
All right, a prohibitive intelligence.
And that's the first thing that gets lost once power ensues.
So it's very dangerous.
Let me let me just propose a trope to you briefly.
Yeah, this will explain something of what I'm trying to say.
No, I was just wondering on how, you know, how do you
formalize that?
How do you formalize the concern?
Yeah, exactly.
When you're in the midst of these extraordinary experiences of like, wow, I can do this.
I can do that.
How do you, yeah.
You start out sober and you maintain sobriety together as you proceed.
And the key word being together.
I don't mean sobriety.
Yes, but in other words, it starts with simple agreements.
We will maintain an awareness of the ego and our psyche and our personal fairy tales.
And we will discuss these openly with each other.
Exactly.
And we will, you know, so that we know something about like, what's the minefield for Joe?
What's the minefield for Darren, Tina, for me, you know, Henrietta, yeah.
So that's what that's very important.
And we will maintain that awareness as we explore.
It's extremely important.
Now, it depends on who you're with.
I think.
But it's better than not at all.
I want to put it.
This is the thing.
Okay, yeah.
This is a lesser of two evils problem, right?
It's dangerous to introduce ordinary humans to non-ordinary experience and to their own,
you know, inborn faculties.
But is it as dangerous as not?
It's just having things go on as they do and living these lives that are dead inside mostly
or largely or partly.
Yeah, I think A is seems to be better than B.
I mean, because it's an experiment, right?
Yes, but that doesn't mean we go hog wild with A.
No, we go cautiously explore.
Yes, yes.
Then to not.
Yeah, it's similar to being in a jungle that you are unfamiliar with.
Right?
You need a guide.
You need someone who knows something of the terrain.
Yeah, you need to be wearing the right clothes.
This is why often a single person starts a little group, right?
Because they're willing to lead it and they know some of the dangers and they're concerned
with sobriety and they're not.
It's not a self-advertising thing.
I think the whole representational stuff has to stay outside.
That's part of the hygiene.
Right?
We're not doing this in the rep layer.
We're doing this in the human layer together.
For the sake of all beings, right?
Literally.
A noble purpose carefully pursued generally leads to something good.
That's beautifully put.
Yeah.
But I think it's really important to make sure that we surface in consciousness some
of the dangers of playing with.
Yeah.
Okay, yeah.
Here's what I was going to say.
So there's a membrane between the ordinary and the non-ordinary.
And if we're going to open that membrane, this is a thing that should be done with respect
and caution and like carefulness.
Yes.
We can still play, right?
It's not just a big adult serious thing.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But we have to have reverence for the dangers of doing this in our time when this is not done.
Exactly.
That's a really good point.
It's what doing that in the here and now is completely different to a thousand years ago.
Yes.
Which actually that would lead us into that whole topic of like,
you know, what are these groups all over the world in cities doing with large amounts of
psychedelics week after week after week?
No, you know, because that's, it's an interesting thing to talk about at some point.
Well, one of the features of psychedelics is that it forces, for most people,
a state that begins to resemble what Owen Barfield calls original participation in his book,
Saving the Appearances, a Study in Idolatry.
So it's sort of saving the appearances, a study in idolatry.
And he talks about original participation by introducing the idea of the rainbow.
Where is the rainbow?
Yeah, you have to participate for there to be a rainbow.
There's no objective rainbow.
Yeah.
