That's actually, that's really, that's really good.
That's very simple to grasp.
You know, yes, it's not there if you're not seeing it.
Yeah.
All right.
There's no such thing as an unseen rainbow.
Right.
There might be an unseen car in front of my garage tree.
Yeah.
Yes, but not an unseen rainbow.
And so by this, he introduces us to an array of very important ideas.
I'll mention them really, really briefly.
Figuration is what we do when we recognize features of our experience,
according to collective representations.
That is a tree, that is a chair, Joe's an accountant, Thomas a doctor.
Not no gender stereotyping meant there.
I was just riffing.
Alpha thinking is when we think about the results of figuration
and their relationships to each other in representational consciousness.
I will boil the water to make the soup.
Yeah.
Water in the pan, pan on the stove, turn stove on, soup in, etc.
And physics and science are primarily alpha thinking.
Yes.
They are this kind of thing.
There are molecules, right?
There are photons and so on.
Here's the mechanics.
Here's the equations.
Beta thinking is thinking about the fact of figuration and alpha thinking
from outside of it.
Right.
Right.
And thinking about consciousness and the evolution of human consciousness
and non-ordinary experience.
And perhaps, if we're not very, very careful, silverware.
Okay, so he introduces these and then he begins talking about
that the experience of archaic minds was fundamentally participated.
Right.
They were in and with all of the beings and the sky and the history and their people
in their direct experience.
They weren't doing alpha thinking.
Causality was not a concept for them.
Whether a theory was right or wrong, not very important at all.
And also this recording, you know, the recording aspect was not done.
It's lived memory that continues.
Yes.
There's a looming problem in the background, which is the idea of authorization.
Suppose a psychic walks up to you on the street
and says, your name is Henrietta.
You were born here and there.
These are your parents' names when you were little.
Such and such happened to you and gets everything right.
Right off the bat.
Which is hot.
You're thrust into, I believe you.
There's a very complex thing that happens there with authority in a way.
The psychic is being indelicate to put it mildly because if a person like this shows up,
it violates everything else that you've been thinking.
And so they suddenly acquire incredible authority.
They have extrasensory knowledge.
It appears that authority that they acquire is dangerous to the psyche.
Very dangerous because you feel threatened.
It's not just that.
It's quite complex, but partly it feels like you're in the presence of someone
who is more than human.
That's a dangerous thing in a relationship.
I wouldn't want to do that to my friend.
That would be a violation of that we are here together.
But a weird invasion, an invasion in the domain of authority.
This person apparently is authorized by God.
Yeah, to know things no one can know.
So this presents a psychic crisis of a sort.
And it's easily manipulated by the person claiming to be a psychic.
This is why there are many mimics.
Yes. Okay, that's a very important point to me.
Just to remember these.
I have had non-ordinary experiences,
but I quail at the thought of calling myself a psychic.
I might be willing to do it in a very special context with a very special meaning.
But I wouldn't suggest.
See, the problem is it reifies the fiction of the,
I have my mind, you have your mind, I can touch your mind.
But that's not what's going on.
I don't think that's what's going on.
That's a clumsy, weird explanation of something delicate
and beautiful and profoundly transcendental
that we should have reverence for and respect about.
And try to understand in a more insightful way.
If we're going to model it, let's have models that are decent.
That's why we're going to go with that.
Like what could be the alternative to that very sort of,
not just clunky model, but as you say, dangerous, like not friendly, actually.
Well, if the minds are all fundamentally connected,
then we don't necessarily have a mind.
There's a localization of consciousness.
Yes, there's a localization of consciousness.
And this is just a toy, right?
We can make better toys than the ones that we've been told our tools.
Okay, that's a good way of putting it.
Yeah, I'm satisfied with that.
Because it's not about getting it right, right?
That's the left hemisphere's framing thing, right?
Rectangles and courtrooms and such.
It's not about getting it right.
It's about seeing better together every time we use our faculties.
I love that.
Learning.
That's wonderful.
It's about seeing better together every time we use our faculties.
Now, you can imagine that something like this could become a cult, right?
All you have to do is move it into the representational layer
and you've got commodities again, right?
Sign up for a weekend for 125 ahead, whatever's going on.
And I'm not...
I don't want to just entirely dismiss all of the fascinating things
that humans can and actually do do together, right?
There are brilliant people out there.
Many.
Yes, yes, of course.
And some of them are doing amazing things.
But what we're talking about here is something that we want to clearly differentiate.
There needs to be hygiene between what happens over here
and collective representations.
There needs to be a filter there so that it doesn't become a cult, right?
A religion.
Yeah.
That's not the goal.
The goal is not to make a new religion.
The goal is to see better together.
Yes, yes.
Do you think...
Do you have a sense that these ways of seeing together are actually
sort of more abundant at the moment than they were, say, 10 years ago?
I mean, I'm thinking more...
Don't.
You don't.
But there are certainly...
The number of commodities will continue to increase.
Okay, this is what I want to...
And some of those will be good, right?
There's a topology, right?
Some of them will be mountains.
Yeah, but just because I was noticing that a lot of people that I know
are just more healthily wary of the kind of cult-making group,
this is the answer, thinking that they do take a more exploratory,
investigative mindset than perhaps 10 years.
I mean, that's just what I...
Oh, I see that.
Yes, I see that.
Sure.
I agree about that.
Darren, I just want to say that we've only got...
We've got a minute left.
So can we think of a nice way to close this episode more than human?
I want to make sure we don't lose the recording.
Yes, I follow.
I'm just grateful to have this chance to learn and remember together with you
and anyone who manages to tune in.
Yeah, fantastic.
Thank you so much for all your insights and to share.
And I just want to say to anyone that's listening out there,
we will be speaking in future episodes with a variety of different thinkers,
anthropologists, biologists, scientists, authors, artists, a whole array of humans.
This is the idea that we gather together and explore together.
Thank you.
Thanks, Henrietta.
Good night.
Good night.
