Yes. So here we are, part two of extraordinary knowing with our guest for tonight,
Darren Stevenson. We're continuing the talk along the subject of more than human.
Darren, why are we? So I was saying, just to give our listeners a physical example of the incredibly
trenchant features of the representational overlays that we're born into,
just look around wherever you may be and count the rectangles. Yes. Try it. Money everywhere. If you
look, the desk, the picture, the phone, the table, the rug, the television, the car, the computer,
the screen. Yes. So we live in, we were talking earlier about like if the people were in a room,
right? And we probably walked a little bit. Yeah. That's very rectangly. But if they're outdoors,
one of the things that, okay, so let's explore this for a moment. We think that when we look up,
we see the sky. Yes, I do. I do, too. It's a natural thing to believe.
But are we sure we see the same sky we'd see together?
That's a good question. The same sky forest is our seeing only personal. This is the myth
of modern culture, right? That seeing that I have, like I'm a container for a mine,
I'd like to suggest that that's very unlikely. And even all of the things, we acquired language
and social cognition and all of the representational overlay stuff from others in a network.
Yeah. So the idea that we have a separate mind is a pretty weird idea and it's part of the,
it's one of the fundamental myths of modernity, right? That minds are separated.
They can't share experience, right? That's considered to be impossible.
Yeah. But astonishing things happen, it turns out, when we get together with a sober version
of this intent and sober doesn't mean not playful. It just means aware of projection and the psyche
having some like caution about, for example, suddenly deciding that a wild narrative must
be the truth, this kind of thing. The things we're prone to as reactions to representational
culture. So yeah, I don't think we see the same sky. I'm pretty sure we don't.
Yeah, I follow you. I've had group experiences of seeing things in the sky that are not,
those aren't things in the lexicon. There are no things that match those.
Yes. I've had that experience too with other people.
And I don't mean a thing that could possibly be an aircraft.
Right? I mean, like something bizarre that doesn't make sense.
Yeah. Or indeed in the natural world, sort of creatures that you don't recognize,
that's happened to me a few times.
Yes.
With other people.
It's very, it's very astonishing if we watch what happens in our minds when we suddenly
encounter something that we don't immediately know what it is, know what it is, right?
And that whole idea of what in most minds means make a separate frame around it,
identify it, and then move on to the next thing. This is not having a mind.
That's a behavior of consciousness, but that's nothing like a mind.
And if we were to get together and explore what it, you know, what can it mean for us
to participate in consciousness together?
That's not the same thing as having a mind either.
To participate in consciousness together.
The myth supposes, well, you do that with your mind.
But what if that's not true?
What if there's another thing that we don't even have language about that we do that with?
That would be a good point.
Yes.
It's important to really question the language that we have in a deep enough way
that we recognize it as we can use it to communicate well together.
Yes, but it is not the thing pointed at.
The thing is not the thing pointed at.
Or actually, yes, the tag is not the thing it points to.
Yeah.
And it's we're trained actually to believe that it is.
Yeah, that is absolutely true.
So normally educational systems are that right?
Yes, they prepare us for functioning in the representational overlay primarily.
Yeah.
So we certainly have astonishing opportunities and they couldn't be nearer at hand.
Right.
It begins with the recognition that the representational overlays
are fascinating and confusing and often bizarre, but they are not true.
Yeah.
They're fundamentally false.
Once we recognize clearly that all the representations are false,
some of them can be useful.
We don't have to be fundamentalist about it or anything.
Uh-huh.
But that's one of the key moments where we begin to acquire the possibility of liberty together.
Yes, the possibility.
That's the key moment when we realize we're participating in consciousness together.
So in terms of that, when we talk about these,
uh, say, you know, in language psychic abilities, telepathy,
dreams where we, you know, shared dreaming.
Yes, shared dreaming.
You know, this is a thing that so many people touch healing by location,
prophecy, different modes of psychism.
Um, so look,
there's a fairy tale, right, where long ago our people were, our minds were born
in intimate relationship with non-human intelligences.
Yeah, that's where I wanted you to go.
And so our minds were made.
This is a fairy tale, right?
We're just as out and as if.
Yes, our minds were made as a companion,
like a physical terrestrial companion of intelligences that certainly are not merely physical.
And ours is that way too, but in a different scope, right?
A lot of our intelligence gets invested in being physical.
Yes, it does.
Painfully.
So long ago, our people all knew this.
They lived this way always.
There was not probably even the idea of me, I, or mine, right?
Everything belonged to the relationship.
All things were within it.
And then there was a catastrophe and the sky door closed effectively and the people went mad.
They couldn't under, it would be worse than if the sun didn't come up.
Okay, much worse than this.
And so people went mad.
There were a few small groups who could still open the sky door
and one or two individual people who could kind of open the sky door.
And so the people would gather around them.
As soon as you had that, what you had was mimics.
You had people who could mimic opening the sky door.
Yes.
And you also had people who were contagiously insane, both, right?
So you got people who can actually open the sky door, mimics,
people who pretend to open the sky door, and people who are actually pretty insane, right?
Their mind is shattered in some way.
Doesn't mean they don't have insight.
Just means, you know, it's a pretty confusing mess in there and it's dangerous.
Right.
And it's contagious, which is another problem.
Insanity is contagious with humans.
Well, it would be contagious if you're participating in the mind.
Yes, yes, precisely.
So it's the same with the tags for the non-ordinary things that humans are certainly capable of.
Yes, you could, again, it's a topology, right?
There's a lot of low-hanging valleys where there's mimics and insane people,
but there's also mountains where those people are not mimicking and it's not insane.
And we don't want to join the valley and we don't want to trade commodities on
non-ordinary abilities and things.
Right.
We don't want this going on.
Yeah, right.
Even in our minds, right?
So again, it has to be approached, I think, with great sobriety and also more than a measure of
a specific flavor of sobriety, which is the Buddhist admonition against acquiring supernatural powers.
Very important reason for this kind of thing.
Yeah, can you just expand on that a little?
Apparently, yes, apparently, according to many very venerable traditions,
on the road to enlightenment, one may
express phases of that process with the development of
I'm frightened of the language, but of psychic abilities.
And perhaps all of the things that we discussed, possibly including things that we think are
completely impossible, like levitation, or by-location, yeah, by-location, teleportation, yes.
We have these ideas.
These ideas weren't mere fantasies.
They are, I would argue, memories.
Yeah, yeah, that's a good one.
They're memories of something.
And the clumsy ideas we have about them, which I think are very naive in general,
and somewhat dangerous, we can set most of those aside and try and just get a taste of the thing
without calling it anything.
We don't have to call it anything.
Let's find out what's possible together.
And we can casually use such language, but we shouldn't believe the model it proposes.
The model of I am separate from you.
I reach into you and find things, and then I show you these things.
Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Right?
This is sort of the idea of telepathy.
Yeah, although I was just going to say in my reading about the Australian aboriginals,
for instance, there was no such thing as that model of it.
It would be a group experience where, and this is an important thing, I think,
because I think about this a lot of, like, how, what role do you assume?
Well, when you switch out roles, you're never assuming the role of the psychic in the group,
but for a moment, perhaps you are the one seeing something.
The next day, someone else is seeing something.
So it's kind of like one mind working together,
but you assume different faculties of that mind at different moments.
It's really interesting.
Mm-hmm.
It's really interesting how in an actually well-knit little group,
each of the minds has unique gifts and deficits,
but when you put them together, you get synergy.
And when you get that synergy, you now have abilities that are certainly not available
to you as an individual.
That's right.
For sure.
That's right.
And there have been sort of experiments done like that quite crudely, and it happens,
should we say?
Yes.
It's natural to human beings, in fact.
Exactly.
It's hard to imagine something more natural than this.
It would be like fish avoiding water.
This is the problem.
This is actually what's going on, right?
Yeah.
We were born to make a little ring of humans and forge something not entirely unlike
the stellar astronomy antenna at Arecibo.
We are born from the sky.
We belong to the sky.
This is a planet in space.
All the life here is alien because all of it comes from a planet in space.
And so, literally, we're living on a world where the character and features of the nature
of time space emerge as embodied organisms and then create synergies
This is what I meant.
The Earth is doing something.
Yes.
The Earth is being something.
I like that.
It's not a dead thing floating in space with some humans swirling around it.
Yeah.
Or it's not just a thing that hosts life.
It is.
Let me suggest something astonishing to you.
Imagine that the...
Okay.
