but definitely affects the humans and the other animals.
This thing does not belong here.
It accomplishes nothing other than making misery
and fucking up the temporalities that are natural to this place.
The problem it's supposed to solve is
both that the geese are not controllable animals, they can fly in and out,
but also they, you know, they make feces.
All right, so somebody decided it was actually the, I think the head of parks and rec in San Francisco
to install that loudspeaker.
About three years ago, I think, and I stopped coming to the gardens when that happened,
and I've been so relieved not to hear it.
They often run it all night too, which is even weirder,
though I can imagine some purposes for which that might happen.
It has a frequency of about one array of signals per 10 minutes. That's the interval.
But one of the things I wanted to highlight before I wrap up is that
all of the intervals in nature are liquid and flow together in communion.
The harsh, sudden, intrusive intervals that we experience in our culture cut things apart.
They slice things up, and sometimes those things are our hearts and sometimes there are actual bodies.
Now, I don't want you to just think, oh, well, Darren's just saying he's a fan of living time.
I certainly am, but I want us to be able to think, oh, here's some events.
That's kind of how time is in nature. It's not a bad representation.
Membranes and manifolds.
Of course, the soap is probably kind of toxic.
Humans really like to be entertained,
but there's nothing as entertaining as true relation as meaningful
relational behavior within for each other and the living beings.
So entertainment becomes another, right, intrusion.
Yeah, it's another, it's a way to fill up that space with more dead time.
Rather than living adventurous and meaningful lives, we observe others do it, pretend to do it,
in dramas that are vaguely analogous to dreams we watch on screens while awake,
but that analogy is poor, very poor. Dreams are ambiguous, fundamentally ambiguous.
Here's some events.
Of course, I don't see them as events, but I mean, this is the opposite of what events
in our lives are. These are living beings.
It should be pretty obvious that the signal from the loudspeaker has zero effect on these animals,
but once somebody installs it, see, now they're identified with it. Now the reputation
is associated with those loudspeakers, and so they'll make claims like, well, it reduces the
population even if it doesn't get them all out. They'll make all kinds of ridiculous claims
that I've looked at and are completely nonsensical. These geese are going nowhere.
They live in a city. They're not wild animals, although they are, you know, they are both
wild and not wild animals. They're para domesticated animals. They're quite used to noise,
and they are a people. And you can see if you watch them as a group,
you can see features of what I was talking about, right?
They are temporal. There's an interval, right? These little
you know, they're grass grabs. They're transforming grass into goose.
Okay, so there's the loudspeaker.
Do they seem troubled?
Do they look like they're paying attention at all?
Not much. A little bit. Some of them haven't heard that sound before, right?
So the ones to whom the sound is new, they're paying a little bit of attention, but not in
the sense that's going to drive them away. I mean, these geese are basically just resting.
They don't care at all about the loudspeaker.
But I do.
It's cruelly invasive.
I care about living time, and I'm aware that the incredible sort of self-hyperbalizing
processes that keep inventing new domains of intervals and inserting them into our lives
is crushing us as human beings.
And the first step in doing something else is just being aware of that, that difference
between living time and the time that is imposed on us.
When we're relating with abstractions, abstractions of value, abstractions of meaning,
abstractions of adventure, abstractions of relation,
our cultures are infested with this, and they're just explosively continuously producing more.
So some of us will choose, once we begin to really understand this, to step aside from that,
to find and make a different path. We will still be subject to some of it.
I am, but I live in a city.
Events permitted outside that gate are radically higher than events permitted inside the gate.
And almost all of the events outside the gate
are mechanical or task-based, and almost all the events inside the gate are alive.
Let's choose the right gate together. Shall we? Bye-bye for now.
