Now, of course, you know, there's an array of trenchant ironies here
because no ambiguity means no opportunity, no adventure, no development,
essentially kind of living death. It's very safe, but nothing happens.
You know, David Byrne, I think, once said,
heaven is a place where nothing ever happens, or rather he sang this.
It's very insightful.
He was aware, whether conceptually or not is a question in the same way I am,
but he was aware of this interplay of vigilance, ambiguity, and prediction.
And so intelligence might then be also a way of balancing these three potentials
for maximum opportunity, minimized but not minimal ambiguity, and efficacious prediction.
That last thing turns out to be really important because if you don't see the repercussions
or if you don't care about them of the development of technique,
your children will be tormented, tortured, if there's even a world on which they might exist anymore.
So there's a super dangerous array of problems that arise from either the failure to predict intelligently,
insightfully, effectively, or we're still the disposition that
inclines us to see catastrophes emergent from technique as opportunities for profit or business,
which is a common malignant cancerous disease in our present cultures.
Those who hold the reins of wealth and power are well protected from almost all of the repercussions
of lethally enacted technique and can bubble themselves up inside a broad array of shields
that keep them and their families relatively safe as long as the whole damn context doesn't collapse,
apocalypse, and any catastrophe that costs life or health is just another way to make money,
more money, which is another way to get more power.
So this leads to a kind of absolute corruption of principles
and particularly the principle of an intelligent democracy,
which is the principle that our country, the United States, counterfeits.
Because what we really have here is like, I don't know exactly what the right term is,
but one that I use frequently lately is kleptocracy,
which is a steal everything you can under the guise of a semi-democratic array of processes
that have been thoroughly compromised from within,
re-compromised, and continue to invent new modes of the counterfeit expression of.
So it's like a recursively self-recounterfeiting opposite of what anything resembling an actual democracy might be,
which is also something that Amon Hillman was interested in and concerned about.
I don't know why, but I found him to be one of the most entertaining of the intellects,
masculine intellects I've ever encountered.
Clearly a genius, also partly mad,
and in some ways more like a human drug than most of the people that I've ever seen.
And one of the things that he was talking very clearly about was the necessity of learning a very complex ancient language.
For him, this is Greek, and he has excellent defenses for why.
I think that he actually believes, and I'm not sure about this, because he says he's not religious,
and he says he's too lazy to be religious, which is interesting.
But he does seem to believe that there is something that resembles the idea of the logos,
which is, at least in my mind, a being, a metaphysical entity, that is the origin of the possibility of rationality.
But he used a different word, he didn't say rationality.
The word that he used, though, implied the potential of making sense of things,
and possibly of representing them and making sense of the representations.
What's the word? I can't recall it. It wasn't our word.
Now obviously, Ammon is very brilliant and has a direct relationship with something like the origins of language in humans,
whether or not he conceives of it as a being.
I conceive of it as an intelligence or an array of intelligences that exist outside of time
and don't require a physical substrate for their existence.
And their collection of these could be understood as a being.
But this is all very derinean.
I'm not trying to convince anyone to dot my perspective here.
Though what Ammon is talking about is a transcendental reunion through the careful study of what he conceives of
as a sygenic linguistic substrate, which for him is Greek,
and which it makes perfect sense to me why he has chosen Greek
and why he thinks it is either the ultimate or penultimate language one can study,
though his experience of other languages is not particularly broad.
Because the study of Greek transformed his mind in such a way that language became his companion
and he rose above it so that unlike us, rather than being subject to language,
language becomes his laboratory and toolbox.
He asked Danny Jones whether or not Danny coins terms.
This is a crucial question.
On the one hand, the irresponsible profusion of self-coin terms is unhelpful at best and ridiculous at worst.
On the other hand, the ongoing failure to coin terms is a sign of linguistic disability, crippling.
And he was talking about the propensity of Greek to not merely allow the constant and common coining of terms,
but to encourage and reward it, though I'm paraphrasing.
It strikes me that the structure of German, about which I know very little,
but seems to be oriented toward complex coining of terms, has a similar functionality.
There's lots of little parts. You can weave them together in all kinds of new or interesting or useful ways.
And English also has this ability. I fairly regularly coin terms.
My recent Facebook friend, Savon Gordon, who's a memestress who calls herself the Queen of Dreams on her memes,
she recently had a reel with a picture of her hair where she basically looked like a Medusa.
Her hair was so possibly intentionally distressed, probably by wind, and I refer to that as a herpocalypse.
This is an example of, you know, coining words in English.
However, you can see that in this particular coining, Greek is involved.
Probably many of the roots that we, what, the phonemes or the fragments of words that are woven together to form English terms are Greek.
Some are Latin. Probably most of them are Greek and some are borrowed from later languages.
Sorry.
One's injured. This goose is injured.
When I began this walk and talk, my initial goal was to talk about the vast library of accessible intelligences that most of us will never taste.
We see much more today because of two things, right? The ability to fake, to present the appearance of superhuman activity or skill,
and the ability to practice and transmit superhuman ability and skill.
Because of YouTube particularly, I guess TikTok now as well.
Lots of contagions are mixed in there. It doesn't just transmit intelligence or training or skillfulness.
But by constantly exemplifying what looks to us to be superhuman abilities and skills,
I'm thinking particularly of parkour, certain martial arts skills, musical skills, dancing skills, skills of acrobatics or physicality,
conceptual or perspectival skills which are a bit more rare.
There's this vast library of exemplars of this in YouTube and now perhaps TikTok.
And this at least potentially makes them contagious.
But what I want to actually point out is that these skills are not superhuman.
The broad library of intelligences and abilities that we bring to our human birth are mostly inhibited, shut down, punished,
or commodified, like filtered into representations such as sports or war.
And so most of the intelligences and abilities that we might naturally embody and enact and experience together with and for each other
are amputated, inhibited, or reframed into forms that can be commoditized and thus controlled, bought and sold for purposes that aren't actually human,
but serve what?
No, it's not verveki.
What Ogie Oglen, I can't remember this guy's actual name, refers to as the replicators which are a branch.
This is a concept for the bad human collectives that just keep doing terrifying things and converting vast populations of humans to robots and slaves and things.
And most of us don't actually understand that there's a kind of a link-up that can occur between the mundane physicality of our human common experience and expectation
and what we might imagine as the transcendent and or the divine.
This is a very familiar concept to me and it's not familiar in the basic conceptual way that it might be familiar to academics.
It's not familiar to me in the way of the difference between someone who has only ever heard about the existence of vast bodies of water and someone who has jumped into them and swam in them,
like the difference between someone who's only heard of a lake and someone who is solo-dived in the ocean. This kind of familiarity.
There are forces, intelligences, beings in the universe that correspond to the concept of the muses.
The Greeks might appear conceptually insane or hyper-religious to us moderns.
The actual problem is the other way around. We are idiots about the transcendental, most modern, generally speaking.
We either refuse to acknowledge that it's possible or real, or we form bizarre, insane representations which we then subject ourselves and others to in the form of organized religion.
Not that all organized religions are bad, wrong, etc. But the vast majority of them are crippling.
Because the feral intensity of our actual human nature and intelligences exceeds the entire payload of all human spiritual traditions by many orders of magnitude.
And this is what I am trying to talk about today.
That potential that we bring to our human birth and the possibility of recovering our capacity to understand and pursue those intelligences,
the development and inaction of those intelligences together, with and for each other, with and for the history of future and future of life on earth,
with and for the benefit of all beings in all of time.
This is an imperative I trust. And there aren't too many that I trust that way.
So, you know, you see examples of humans doing things that look impossible to us.
I don't know, playing 47 notes per, you know, more than a note per second on the guitar, for example.
Which isn't necessarily genius and can be stupid, because beauty and speed are not the same thing.
Hyperfunction isn't the same thing as prodigy, but there's a relationship there that's real.
You know, you can see wild examples of people climbing up walls, flipping over in the air, doing all kinds of seemingly impossible monkey-like acrobatics under the rubric of parkour.
You can see someone shatter a stack of bricks, not with a punch, but with a movement of their fingertips that's less than an inch.
They have no time in which to accelerate. They go from zero to pure acceleration in a span of less than an inch.
All kinds of profound, martial examples of martial skill and effectiveness, some of which are phony.
For sure, some of that's phony. But a lot of it isn't. Plenty of it isn't.
The capacity for not merely superfunction in our bodies and minds, but hyperfunction, is real and natural to humans.
It's not superhuman. It's human. Or it's subhuman in the sense that it arises from either our animalian basis, our organismal basis, our basis as organisms, or our basis as beings.
And if we imagine those as sort of rings on a cone, that the top of which is the human, then these are subhuman features.
And if we imagine them as rings, that the lowest point of the cone, whether the cone goes up or down, is the lowest point as human, then they are more than merely human.
Which I would argue they are. The latter rung of our being is more than the latter rung of our organismal nature, which is more than the latter rung of our animalian nature, more than the rung of our human nature.
But it's useful to be able to think in either direction about this, and to not be too biased, because are they actually separate rungs? There's lots of important questions here.
But the thing that I want you to understand is that you came to human birth, and every person that you ever loved, and that you ever knew, they came to incarnation endowed with an anciently developed library of seemingly impossible faculties and abilities
that mostly get amputated, circumcised, lost, lied about, faked. There's lots of people who think, oh you know, psychism is impossible, Darren Brown proved that.
Because Darren Brown can fake the feats of mentalists and psychics, his presumption is that because I can fake those, all such things are fake. That's not true, and it's not possible.
Telepathy is real. Mind to mind contact is real. Mind to place contact is real. Mind to time contact is real.
The ideas that we consider to be our sober defenses against superstition and fakery are just as dangerous as they are protective if they blind us to the veritable existence of anything that can be counter-fitted.
And Darren Brown is a professional counter-fitter. So, you know, not surprising. I mean, he has a grudge, right? And his grudge is purposeful and intelligent to a degree. It's just that the degree is not universal.
He doesn't want people to be taken advantage of, lied to, shriven of their money, time, belief. So he wants to show them that the entire domain of metaphysical and or even physical skills.
You know, he goes to a martial art dojo where the teacher is supposed to be capable of demonstrating what is called the one-inch punch, which I spoke of earlier.
And Darren demonstrates something very similar in effect. But what Darren is doing, Darren Brown that is, is not demonstrating martial skill. Darren has very little if any martial skill.
Darren's skill is a skill at manipulating consciousness of nearby humans. And he's an expert at that. And so what he's actually doing is more or less hypnotic rather than physical.
But let me be very clear about this. If a skilled martial artist who could execute this maneuver struck you in the sternum with such a blow, it probably shatter your rib cage. Shatter it. Don't just break your rib.
Humans have abilities. We're living in the lowest possible realm of the ladders that we were born to climb together for each other, for our ancestors, for our progeny, for the future, for life on Earth, for our species.
These are noble, heroic imperatives that we come to human birth imbued with, that are stolen, lied about, compromised, sold broken, counterfeited, and sold back to us in every ridiculously addictive form because we're dying of the pain of isolation.
We're dying of having no meaningful identity or role. We're dying of loneliness while surrounded by thousands of strangers.
And when I say we, I don't just mean we, I mean me. This is true of my own experience. I can sense the terrifying vacuum of meaningful human experience, identity, opportunity, adventure, relation.
And so forth.
Moment to moment.
And it is witheringly in miserating.
That's the word I coined, in miserating.
This pain is the origin and source of our enslavement.
And some of us endeavor to break free, like birds chained to a wall.
We want not merely to fly again.
We want to free the mothers, the children, the ancestors, the progeny from that faith.
Even if we ourselves will not fly again, we ache for the inaction of the principles from which the concept of justice derives.
And that concept is not a concept of the punishment of wrongdoers.
The concept of justice is the concept of liberation and resolution of harm, institutionally conserved and reenacted forms of harm.
That torment beings, and particularly living beings, embodied beings.
No one would punish a murderer, harm them, make them pay.
I mean, this is the most ridiculous idea in the history of human thought, make them pay.
No one would do that if they could simply use the intelligence gathered from some murder to ensure that future murders didn't happen.
To make the murder medicine from the murder that actually took place, we would never punish anyone.
And if we, in punishing humans for their quote wrongdoing, if in doing that we guarantee the reenaction of the injustice,
that is insane, malignant, wrong, horrifying, stupid, inexcusable, unjustifiably catastrophic.
We're just going to reiterate catastrophe and waves going forward in time and generations.
And this is what our idea, prison-eering, accomplishes.
It's a for-profit slave-making system run by and for the benefit of the wealthy and the replicators as that Ogie guy is talking about.
So part of intelligence is understanding these principles that I've outlined today.
But the greater portion is finding ways to implement that understanding that actually accomplish liberation
and that grant us the contextual support for recovery operations that we engage in together with and for each other,
that reintroduce our more than merely human natures, imperatives and abilities to our direct experience
and celebrate them and support them, recognize them, encourage them.
You know, my talk today is an attempt, it's an essay in this direction.
And I hope you find it inspiring and useful because even just by having a conversation like this one,
we have begun the process I described together.
It may be imperfect, it may not solve all the problems,
but it calls to mind the potentials and opportunities of our humanity and our origin,
our nature as living beings and as more than merely human beings.
And that call is the call that our incarnation originated with, worthy of pursuit,
trustworthy beyond all concepts, beyond all language, beyond all skills,
a compass in a darkness that grows more tangled in our modern experience with each passing moment.
And you know, the situation seems hopeless,
but it's only hopeless if the scope is too large for us to address.
The moment we shrink the scope to me and you and two or three other people,
the impossible becomes the accomplished.
I'm so grateful for this opportunity to learn and undergo a kind of an amnesis,
un-forgetting, together today.
I'm so grateful to all of you who listen and participate and share this with others,
which is very helpful, you know, if you can and you wish to make a little donation,
even a one-time donation on my website organelle.org would be very deeply appreciated.
And I look forward to learning together again very soon.
Thank you for joining me.
Key and lock.
May your path and life, relationships, streaming and opportunities be beautiful, rich, fulfilling, and exquisite.
Bye-bye for now.
