Hello everybody. Welcome.
Because we are trained by language and culture to think as if intelligence
is a possession. This is a misuse of the container metaphor. Even though there are examples
of intelligence localized as the body, history, memory and behavior action of what we could
think of as distinct individuals. The ballet dancer, the classical musician, the neurosurgeon,
the elite coder, the mother who expertly cares for four or more children, the orator who is
certainly appearing as an individual performer, the comedian. There are veritable examples
of the existence and an action of individual intelligences and profound skillfulness which is where I'm going to go toward in this walk and talk today.
But I'm pretty sure that none of them, none that I'm aware of, arise or exist in absolute isolation. And the arising part is the important part here.
Not for all of us, but for most of us, our capacity to experience, embody, exemplify and enact the vast library
of our possible intelligences will profoundly depend on the contexts in which we arise, in which we mature.
And our intelligences are composed with and for and against those with whom we imagine ourselves.
And certainly we have actual local relationships, family, peers, culture, media, so forth. But even those must be imagined. We have to imagine participating in them, to participate in them.
There's a powerful necessity for organized coherent consciousness in relation with the world, history, mystery, possibility, potential.
The Stellars Jay recognizes me and I brought him, it's a male, pretty sure, a peanut. And having received peanuts before, it has an imaginal trace in its memory.
This is very strange. What the hell could that even mean? Someone's bag. So it's almost like a trap for humans, right? Put a bag with a bunch of objects in it and just leave it on a bench and then walk away from it and see what happens.
Because the humans are naturally curious about the contents of the bag. No one knows what might be in there. A few weeks ago, in a garden around the corner from my house, the gardener has found $50,000 stacks of $100 bills in a bag.
Apparently the money was filthy, really gross, but still, you know, cash dollars, you can wash them. I didn't feel, you know, I had complex feelings about that and we'll come back to the other topics.
But imagine finding that yourself and then like taking it home and wondering, is this money perhaps cursed? Why is it so disgustingly filthy? Who could have disposed of it in this way and why did they do so?
And is it a trap? Because it's a perfect kind of trap.
When my father used to work in the Weberstown Mall in Stockton at Roger's Jewelers, him and the other salespeople, they would often crazy glue silver dollar to the tile in front of the store for entertainment.
And they would watch as women kicked it and broke their heels and people tried to pry it off the floor and they thought this was hilarious.
But it's not unfunny. The problem is rather that it's a cruel kind of humor that depends on deceiving others and then finding their vulnerability to deception, entertaining.
It's a very mean-spirited mode of the possibilities of humor and much, many of the possibilities of humor have degraded into such meanly spirited modes in our time.
My friend who lives in town here, Johnny Teo, called her own, hosted something on Facebook yesterday that I found absolutely hilarious and I still find it hilarious, but there's nothing mean about it.
He wrote, some people have the calm before the storm. I have the panic before the nothing.
And a couple of my friends said that I think that's a generational thing. And I said, yeah, maybe.
He often writes very humorous things, but I thought that was hilarious, mostly because it's so familiar to my own direct experience of having a mind and consciousness, and part of having a mind and consciousness is imagining futures.
And I want to talk a little bit about what I mean by intelligence because this concept is fundamental for me. It is orienting, and that's what makes it fundamental.
If I want anything, there's probably a few things I want. I want to avoid making the most deadly mistakes that can be made during an incarnation.
The ones that really screw futures up and maybe hurt other beings. I want to see better every time I begin to see. I want purposes that improve themselves each time I arouse them.
I want more intelligence, which means insight, awareness, seeing from above, and often seeing for purposes and in ways that are extremely uncommon among my species,
because we are trained to the lowest rungs of the ladders on which we might hopefully together within for each other ascend toward
the finest or most beautiful, most profound, most trustworthy, most holy potentials of our humanity and animality and beingness and origin.
And that ascent is crucially important to me.
The relatively malignant gains that are imported into consciousness as we learn English and childhood and as we become enculturated, particularly courtroom mind, possession mind, war mind, and drag us down the ladder mind.
Meaning let's go for even lower hanging fruit until we get to the rotten, moldy stuff on the ground and maybe we'll be able to find an even more deleterious place from there.
There's no end to the low end of the ladders, much like the high end they're infinite, but they're far more easily accessed than the what I'm positing as up on the ladders of memory, insight, intelligence, awareness, human and cultural possibility.
So what do I actually mean by intelligence?
And here's the real problem, or here's a real problem.
Speaking abstractly about virtues is ironically almost the opposite of enacting them much of the time, if not most of the time.
One has to be profoundly skillful to enact something while speaking of it.
I have occasionally seen recent examples of this.
I saw a few examples in the not modestly insane locutions of Ammon Hillman in his recent interview with Danny Jones.
There were some examples in there.
I've seen other examples in the locutions of John Verveke recently, who I've managed to fascinate my son with, which is a pretty significant accomplishment for me since nearly nothing that I can present to my progeny actually captivates his attention.
Mostly he attacks it, which, you know, is a perennial problem.
So this is the problem, right?
I can talk about what I mean by intelligence, but if I'm not enacting it while speaking about it, then I'm walking away from it by talking about it.
This is a very complex and difficult problem to resolve.
Actual prodigy tends to be able to resolve this problem without much planning in the natural course of not merely locution,
but a word I recently came to understand the meaning of, if I understand the meaning of it, elocation,
which I'm going to pretend means to accomplish what is being spoken of by speaking about it.
Now, I can think of two contrary examples, which will be familiar to some of those who've listened to my recent podcasts.
One that is the opposite of elocation, which is a statement something like...
Actually, there's a couple of them.
One of my favorites is to demonstrate the capacity for incredibly absurd idiocy in language.
One of the statements is, this is the most important statement you will ever hear.
It's kind of my version of the Rossellian paradox, if I understand which paradox that is correctly.
A similar anti-illocutive statement is, I will not be speaking to you today about leverage or succession.
An example, again, if I understand the concept correctly, now I've long understood a similar concept that may not be truly elocation,
but it is the capacity to accomplish certain kinds of virtues, mostly perspectival, intellectual, conceptual,
to accomplish them by framing them in language.
And also, to do what is being said by saying it is very, very different from mere description.
So if I say that a manifold is a bubble of many bubbles, and there are intersections between these bubbles,
and that what we do, what I'm doing right now to form this sentence is collapsing a manifold, right?
I am throwing away bubbles until I get a kind of a complex stick figure from the remaining intersections.
And then I select among those for the structure of the sentences I will vocalize.
And it is similar in thought or problem solving.
So what do I mean by intelligence?
Well, one of the best examples is the entire array of non-human, non-representational intelligences
embodied in the biorelational hyper-structure that we refer to as nature.
And particularly the bubble of life that surrounds and penetrates and enlivens our planet here.
Those beings are not referring to things.
They are enacting anciently sophisticated biorelational intelligences, moment to moment,
instant to instant, together as a unity seemingly comprised of individuals.
So, you know, one of my jokes recently was the problem with the idea of non-human intelligences
is that it's very likely that that's the only kind there is.
Obviously, our species, at the species level, is profoundly adept at certain terrifying modes of technique.
And as profoundly bereft of the wisdom necessary to know which of them to not implement
and how to not implement examples that are omnicidal.
On the other hand, our collective technique is like a demon, very profound.
I was talking with my friend Eric the other night and I was recalling when I was a child
it was as if I had lived before in other ages.
And could thus recall what in science fiction or the game Traveler or other science-fiction systems
could recall the tech level of the civilization in which I previously existed
and compared that to what I discovered in this incarnation with objects like toasters and televisions and watches and, you know, hams.
Think about how complex a hem is.
And maybe you could figure out how to sew, somewhat crudely, perhaps using the viscera of animals as a thread and animal skins as fabric.
But your chances of composing an actual fabric, very slim, the simple cotton sheet underneath my bed
is a catastrophically sophisticated example of human technique
and zippers are ridiculously, complexly advanced and useful.
So there's this whole dimension of technique at the collective level of the humans
that really does provide us with what we can imagine as benefits, reasonably imagine as benefits.
Comfort, convenience, survivability.
That second word is one of the most dangerous of the demons.
Apparently the humans have no inhibitive intelligence around what not to trade for convenience
including our ancestors, our souls, our origin, our intelligence, our health,
our planet itself, the anciently conserved ecologies, you name it.
We will gladly, or, you know, stupidly, hand all that over.
Our privacy, our relationships, there's nothing safe.
But the reason that we will hand it over isn't necessarily that we're just stupid or addicted.
It's that we're lonely. We're isolated.
And the specter of the anti-cultures that arise in the wake of the human relationship with technique
is recursively self-impoverishing.
It just creates new and greater depths of impoverishment within us and in the world over time.
And the pain of that is what makes us willing to trade away the most precious assets imaginable.
It's so precious that their value is impossible to comprehend, which also makes it easy.
Something that's infinite, something that appears infinite to consciousness,
one cannot understand that it has been traded away.
It seems impossible to imagine that it could be taken away or fracked for profit, power.
So, it's very challenging to abstractly say what I mean by intelligence.
Since I hadn't practiced it, and I'm really just improvising here,
I'm not too sure of my footing, so to speak.
But I'll try to say some things about it.
The capacity to usefully improve previously practiced methods, ideas, perspectives,
what we call solutions, which is a very strange thing to call them,
to be able to resolve various conflicts and or problems,
and also the capacity particularly to detect and attend the repercussions of such solutions
so as to avoid the self-ironizing weaponization that rather naturally occurs
the intelligences we practice and develop are not broadly pro-generative of insight,
rather than mere technique.
So, it's the capacity to rise above the common, often lethal, meaning causative of forgetting,
results of poorly conceived purposes, motivations, ideologies, conceptions.
Now, of course, actual insight is not formally above.
It's not necessarily up from the other dangerous stuff.
This is a metaphor.
I think we all understand in a basic way what the metaphor implies,
and the simplest way to say that is just improvement.
Now, there are many spiritual traditions that naturally and perhaps intelligently
warn us about the dangers of conceiving the purpose of improvement.
And this is in part because conceiving that purpose is distracting.
We are inclined to become un-present, to defect from intimate awareness of the moment, our bodies, situations, relationships, histories.
And this desire drives much of the problem with human technique.
But it is truly astonishing what the humans can accomplish with their super-organism-like technical behavior.
Unfortunately, most of that stuff is quite malignant in its inaction results.
There's a beehive about 15 feet from me.
It's an intentional beehive.
Some human put it together and populated it and so forth.
I'm going to take a closer look for a moment.
I'm a huge fan of the Haiman opera.
If I understand correctly, the Greek origins of this word haiman,
which we refer in English and maybe other languages to a sheath in the reproductive organs of a female
that must be broken for effective intercourse to occur.
I think the word means blood.
But this is what I derived from listening to Amon Hillman.
It's also strongly associated with femininity or the female gender.
And so, clearly, Haiman opera, which is the, what, the genus?
I can't remember which Linnaean latter segment is right of the Ansby's wasps termites
because they are female-dominated, biologically female-dominated societies.
Or at least that's the impression we take from our own purposeful derivations.
So one reasonable definition of intelligence is to just see better,
to keep continually to forge a cascade of greater insight
that keeps that with each iteration gets a richer, deeper, broader and more specific
array of capacities to derive useful conceptions and potentials for action.
And that's the behavior relation.
Well, surely you can see how different this description is from the inaction of it.
And for that, for the moment, I must simply apologize.
I'm not as sharp as I could be surrounded by intelligence others
or with the participation of intelligences far richer and older than my own.
But another definition of intelligence that's very valuable
is one associated with the oath that we associate with Hippocrates.
And I strongly suspect that in the Greek there's a strong distinction
between Hippocrates and the root from which we get the concept of Hippocracy,
which is the ironic violation of espoused principles, intelligences or perspectives
by one's actions and speeches in action too,
even though it's a very specific kind of action.
But the Hippocratic oath includes the admonition to first don't make things worse.
And this is part of the admonition in Buddhist and other spiritual systems
to not try to improve situations or things.
Let them be as they are.
Attend your own, you know, attention.
Attend your own attention, body, perceptions.
Don't place too much urgency on thoughts.
Let them dissolve away just as they arise.
Try not to enact them or cause them to become recursively self-generative
of long sequences of thoughts, which by the way goes back to that hilarious thing
that my friend Johnny said.
Because to have the panic before the nothing is the result of too much thinking.
And I guess intelligence can also be understood as concerned with three primary features
of human attentional investment, which are ambiguity, vigilance and prediction.
So when something's ambiguous, we're going to tend to pay more attention to it
unless it's irresolvable.
We're going to try to collapse it toward a graspable derivative.
And that's costly in terms of attention and straight-up capitalism.
Like glucose, whatever feeds a cognitive and nervous system activity.
Because you have to stay in a state of readiness, which is expensive.
So what the humans like to do and what they often do
and what many of their ideas of convenience orbit
is the reduction in ambiguity over time as an equation.
And the attempt to produce something like negative ambiguity,
which is something that gravidically pre-resolves possible future ambiguities moment to moment.
And that's why we live in boxes that are dead inside.
Because when they're dead inside, there's nothing to attend.
The degree of unexpected, you know, a rise of ambiguity is extremely low inside a house.
There's nothing is moving unless we have animals or children or something.
Or, you know, the other humans may move about.
In most homes, there's very little life.
And the less life there is, the less ambiguity there is,
the less of a prediction burden there is.
