But our bodies, unique in each individual,
will still express the ancient histories, not merely of our people, but life on earth.
The music of voices tells more than the words, or at least without the music,
the words are woefully incomplete and may easily deceive us.
Especially if we want to believe the words and are unused to listening to the music.
Now the sun is setting and the daylight moon is shining.
That moon above us is reserved, in a sense.
And it protects the earth and nurtures it.
Its gravity informs the character of time, all different kinds of time.
Not just the minute, hour, day, week, month, year time. No, no, relational time.
The moon is not a clock.
And I strongly suspect that the moon and the sun
are forms of being. They are not things. The way our language implies.
They are beings. Or even they belong to a class we have crude language for.
Deceptive language.
For they are not merely beings. They are more than beings.
There are beings because there is a sun and a moon here.
You see? In a very real sense, they are parental.
And both of them are married in us.
One might say we are the produce of their love making.
And to some this will seem poetic or unjustly metaphysical.
And yet our knowledge ways are so primitive that rather than revealing the nature of our being
in origin, spirit, heart, they occlude them much more often.
Indirection.
To communicate by inviting our companions
into deeper intimacy beyond language.
This is indirection. And if I were brilliant.
Then I could give examples and metaphors.
But I'm not feeling particularly articulate at the moment. Rather I'm feeling calm and gentle.
But if you watch your own communications and the communications of others
in all their breadth and scope and depth, you will see that the language and the declarations
are often very shallow compared to the invitations and the suggestions.
Ambiguity.
The inclusion of ambiguity in our communications behaviors
is the primary direction of liberty for our minds, ideas and relationships because it gives play.
It opens what is otherwise very closed and creates possibilities, pathways or otherwise we have obstacles.
The sun when cloaked with clouds, its light
inherits ambiguity from the water in the atmosphere.
And we associate water with the feminine. This is not unjustified.
As in fact, just before we're born, the waters in the womb depart.
And I suppose we associate fire with masculinity. And this is also a solar analogy.
We must be careful, I think, not to allow our concerns, our very important and valid concerns,
about equality to evict ambiguity from our thought, awareness, access and relation.
That's a tragic loss.
But that danger is part of what casts light on the path we can trust more and embody together more deeply.
The things we think of as bad are not merely bad. Without them, we would not understand the danger.
It might become insensitive, insensitive,
in thought, belief, behavior, opinion.
I was very surprised to hear what the young rabbi said to me about the women in one sense.
In another sense, I understood he was saying something like,
well, we are a traditional people. We have traditions. But he was also saying,
because
I can be rather enchanting. He was saying, do not enchant our women. They belong to us.
It's not my intention to dissect his statement. I merely used it as an example
to illustrate long histories, strange histories. And there's something to these histories,
even though I recoil from the idea that women should be thought of as property.
Everything in me recoils from this. And ever since I was a child, I could see the power in the women
and the difference between its depth and breadth and spaciousness
and what most of the boys or men were doing and thinking and being. The difference, I could see.
But I could also see how each child was incredibly unique for all
the child might resemble some idea or model.
And this incredible uniqueness is something we should pay very close attention to because
in our time, it's disappearing into words and categorizations and characteristics.
There's so much more to know and learn and see and grow toward
than our ideas are likely to reveal or even preserve.
And in the age of science and rationality and technology,
we're in great danger, all of us, uniquely and generally, of losing touch
with our capacity to sense
the beautiful opportunities of our human incarnation.
As if history were waves of terrible forgetting
in the wake of the capacity to represent things, to measure things, to analyze them,
to think that the statistical average or mean tells us what or who someone is or something is,
which, of course, can never be true. Hey, man, good to see you.
Is Brian really a man?
Well, provisionally, and perhaps biologically, yes.
Is he more a man than he is a being? No.
You see, here is the freedom. A being has plenty of ambiguity space. A man has less.
A warrior has less.
Though I'm resistant to labels, I'm not afraid to use them, but I try to keep learning how to use
them more intelligently, in the sense where intelligence means insight, seeing into.
And I'm deeply motivated to seek insight. I wish to see.
Knowing is a different thing, particularly in representational thought.
There is the other kind of knowing. There are many kinds of knowing.
Right. To know food by tasting it has little to do with what it is called, or even what it is composed of.
To know another by caressing them has nothing to do with representations.
Most of the kinds of knowledge that I deeply value, and of course, in my waking mind, it's like
it's a bit like the sun in that the sun tells you what colors things are. Whereas the moon,
it's all shadings and mystery and
pareidolia shapes in shadows, can seem to come to life and transform.
Is that an animal? Is it a rock? We don't know at first. And in that not knowing,
there's an incredible intimacy that is lost when we decide, oh, it's someone's backpack.
And then we're done with it. You see, this is the problem.
In the place of not knowing, there is real intimacy because our senses all come to life
and awaken. Our curiosity, our fear, our wonder.
In the ambiguity, there's space for all of that. Once we know what it is,
few of us can preserve the liberties that otherwise disappear there.
The sun has sat
not quite completely, but the reddish light
is on the trunks of trees.
In the morning, the bluish light will come.
And at night, the moon will shine for a while.
Before she sets, I'd give it seven hours by my estimate.
If you see the moon, think of me. And when I see the moon, I will think of you.
And we can be together in ways our modernity too easily deprives us of.
And we can be remembered to our original light
to the great adventure of being embodied in time and space.
We can be together in the beautiful, dreaming way
that all of life composes within four all beings.
Wouldn't that be beautiful?
Isn't that truth
unclothed by thought, idea, category?
I am for the living beings. I am for all the beings in all of time.
For me, they are my friends, my body, my origin, my companions, my hope, my love, my wonder.
I just experienced the ambiguity. I looked at a tree and a branch seemed to be an owl
for a moment until my perspective shifted and the ambiguity
faded away into knowledge.
I love the many beings.
May your paths in life be sweet and beautiful and true.
Thank you for joining me. Bye-bye for now.
