Take a moment and have a deep, way down, deep in your belly, relaxing breath.
And recall to mind all of the beautiful moments and beings, relationships, accidents, wonders,
all of the beautiful dreams, all of the beautiful beings, as one family, one animal, one creature,
one being, the being you are right now.
Take a moment and let that moment expand outwards from this moment throughout all of the branches
and paths of your feelings as a human being, of your life, of those you love and those who
love you and those they love and those who love them.
Take a moment in beauty to remember, to be remembered in sunlight, in darkness, in wonder,
in beauty. Remember the breeze traveling through the living land. Remember the ancient waters
that come from the sky. Remember the sunlight, the golden warmth. Remember the living life
of the plants and trees. Remember friendship and care, kindness and concern.
Remember compassion. Remember your first footsteps, the first time you saw the sky,
the first time you saw the stars with your living eyes. Remember the first time you related with
an animal, the first flower who sent was drawn into your body as you breathed it in. Remember
the first time you ate food. Remember the fog flowing across the landscape of the evening,
the clouds swimming in the beautiful sky of this world. Remember the first time someone bathed
you in warm water. Remember the first time. Remember your first friend. Take a moment and
breathe for all of the mystery of being and all of its tragedy and heroism is yours forever.
Remember without exception. Remember for the sake of beauty and healing
for the sake of well-being, for the sake of all beings. Take a moment and remember now together.
When I came outside today in the late afternoon, I saw the sun. It's so beautiful, so impossible,
so gentle really in our time, though it hasn't always been that way. And my heart was glad. I was gladness
in my heart to see the sun and the tree outside my home. I was so glad to see the tree. It shields my home
and dreams with me at night. It protects me and we love each other. And then as I was walking,
I turned around and saw the moon. I can see her now like a physical angel. In the daytime the sun
is very bright when the sky is clear. And it's hard to look at the sun directly with open eyes,
though one can do it and not be harmed. Right now I see a bird and I'm not sure what it is,
though I have a word for it. Rather, I remember what it is, but it isn't like words. It's not like
ideas. It's not like language at all. It's impossible to be alive this way and yet we are for a time.
When I looked at the moon shining in the daylight, I thought suddenly about indirection,
in thought and language and communication, about the way of implying but without stating.
The other night I was speaking with my friend William Faraway and we could both see the moon.
Even though he was thousands of miles away, we could look at the same thing together at the same
time in the sense of meaning we are both doing this now. But our eyes could touch the same
object that were thousands of miles away from each other together at night.
When I saw the moon, I realized how important indirection is
to suggest without declaring
and thereby leave an interval of spaciousness that the imagination can inhabit and explore.
A way to see sunlight but not directly reflected
without the sun and the moon
in exactly the places they travel in relation to the earth.
It's not clear there'd be life here
and if there were, it wouldn't be life like us. It would be different life.
One can indirectly see the sun's light by looking at the moon and that's a miracle.
Of course, there isn't anything that's not miraculous, fundamentally.
And when I was thinking about indirection,
I was thinking about the sun and the moon and I was thinking about
the qualities we associate with masculinity and the qualities we associate with femininity.
And one might say, oh, these are deceptive conveniences
and not be entirely confused.
But there's something deeply true about many of the polarities.
Up and down, right and left, dark and light, kind and cruel,
warm and cold,
life and death, health and illness,
the sun and the moon,
male and female, empty and full.
These ideas, these words, are not what they point at, but what they point at
is real to our common experience.
And while there's a place in awareness beyond all polarity
and that place is worthy of recognizing,
it's still true
that female birds lay eggs
and male birds fertilize them.
There's a polarity here that's quite profound with the birds that I love.
The female of this pair
is in her ways reserved.
She does not come to my hand
with the audacity that the male does
to take one of the pieces of food that I offer them as a gift of love.
She stays up high, watching,
in a sense, watching over him.
And he goes down low and hunts and forges
and adventures with the strange monster that wears clothes and makes recordings.
And he likes risk.
He'll take the risk of coming to my hand.
And part of the reason he can take that risk
with confidence is that he knows me.
But another part
of what helps him to be able to be audacious
is that she's watching over him.
And not just him, but everything here, all of life here, she's watching and learning.
And when when he adventures, she goes with him.
And when she's reserved and cautious,
he is with her.
I'm sure there have been some cultures that thought of the sun as feminine
and the moon as masculine.
And yet the sunlight penetrates everything.
Fertilizing, warming, shining.
And the moonlight seems to me more gravidic.
And of course, the moon is the closest source of gravity
around here.
And so we feel it deep inside us, all the time, without knowing,
without being conscious of these feelings.
Our bodies have known the moon since before we were animals.
Our bodies have known the sun since before we were animals.
Every human, every creature that had eyes saw the moon.
If it lived long enough,
every creature saw the sun.
But even those without eyes, they felt them, the warmth and the gravity, together.
The sun is so bright, that we see because of it.
And this is a rare use of the word because that I trust.
The moon, we can look at very safely.
The boy bird is here with me.
And the girl bird is watching over him nearby.
The feeling of his claws on my hand for an instant as he takes the food
is quite profound and lingers for some time. I still feel it.
Feelings and forms of awareness,
they have a temporality, they have a span.
I can still feel the tap of his claws on my fingers that sometimes almost penetrates my skin.
I trust him and he trusts me.
I trust her and she trusts me.
The trust can be broken. I remember a time when the girl was teaching me something.
But it was hard at first to understand.
And because I didn't understand at first, she became upset
and made alarm calls and flew away from me. And I wondered why
until later when I saw that
where we had been standing,
there was a hawk nearby.
And then I understood.
And I think somehow she knew that I understood later.
But at the time she must have wondered something like
why would I offer her food when a hawk is right above us?
But you see, she knew
that the hawk was above us because her awareness
encompassed much that mine did not.
Of course, the gravity of the sun is quite profound as well,
but it's different than that of the moon.
And this is the problem with words.
It's too easy to suppose
that the things we name with words are in fact the same.
When it's certainly more true that they are not.
The words are strange generalizations.
And that's both useful and dangerous.
This word gravity, it comes from a word
gravity that means filled with eggs.
When the female praying mantis is preparing
to lay her egg case,
and she may or may not have been fertilized by a male,
she is gravid.
And when she is gravid, she changes.
Her way of being in the world is very different.
And in my experience, often more fierce, a bit ravenous.
I remember when I was very small,
I had a praying mantis who was my friend.
And she lived in the garden and I knew her.
There were other mantises, but I knew her.
And when she became pregnant,
one day on my very small finger,
she looked at me and tilted her head to the side.
In that peculiar way that we're used to only animals doing,
even mammals, particularly humans.
And then she bent down and took a bite out of my fingertip and ate it.
It hurt. And I was frightened for a moment.
But something quite profound was happening there.
I don't think it was merely that she was hungry.
And I don't believe she had the intention to harm me.
Of course, imagination is an astonishing thing to have.
Perhaps the root of every faculty.
Perhaps not, too.
But perhaps the culmination of our faculties, the integration of our faculties.
Many years later, when I reflected on that moment, it occurred to me
that what she was doing was joining us together.
And not just me and her,
but all of my children in the future,
all of my ancestors in the past,
and all of her children in the future,
and all of their ancestors in the past.
In a way, we were getting married.
Of course, as a child, I was confused and couldn't think in such sophisticated terms yet.
Gravity.
Sometimes when I was little, I would look up at the sky,
and it seemed to me there was a way to invert the polarity.
And even that it was possible, I might do so accidentally if I wasn't very careful.
And so, instead of being drawn down to the earth, I would fly up into the sky, lost forever.
Traveling, traveling, up and up and up.
I still have that feeling sometimes.
And I like to think that there's a sky our minds and hearts were born for.
But the skies of earth are the invitation to.
The other day,
I was sunning myself,
and I have lots of adventures with the boy, the boy bird, who's here with me right now.
And he's very demonstratively eating a peanut.
Of course, it could be the girl. Sometimes it's hard to tell them apart.
But before he opened or she opened the peanut,
the bird made calls to attract my attention.
They like to be with me, and I like to be with them.
And it's not just because I bring them food.
We bide together in the day.
For life is brief, and love is beautiful, and nourishing, and true.
So the boy and I have adventures together because he's bold,
and he likes to have adventures with me, and I like to have adventures with him.
But the other day, a few weeks ago, I sat down on a bench where I often meditate,
and I took off my shirt and my shoes and socks, and that must have been an interesting moment
because the birds had not seen me do this, though they've seen other things.
So I was sitting in the warm sun,
and the girl came near and looked at me for a moment,
and then she brushed out a cup.
She made a little crater in the bark nearby,
and then she fluffed up and spread wings and tail all out,
and canted her head to the side, and sun bathed with me.
