And we were sunbathing together, and that was a soft adventure.
A remembrance of unity.
You know, when we were very small,
our hearts were shining with original light,
and we'd come to the mysterious world as if we were the first being ever born in it.
And we were filled with love, or love was filled with us, or something
even more beautiful that I cannot hope to say in ordinary language, but
everything was our friend, and all the beings were our companions.
And there was no prejudice, no hatred, no anger, just wonder.
Wouldn't it be amazing to preserve that all throughout our lives?
And of course, deep inside us, there's a sanctuary,
where all of these things are preserved, and perhaps deep isn't the right word,
it's the word we commonly use.
Moment to moment in life,
in life, it's easy to become confused with superficial concerns, and fears, and
courtrooms, language, and models, and ideas, and science, and religion,
concepts, and opinions, politics, news, headlines.
A funny word, headline.
These days, the headlines have become extremely toxic and bizarre in their
power to warp language and identity and meaning and circumstance in such a way
that we don't even know what's going on in our lives.
I think most of us are made dumber every time we see one.
My relationship with the girl is indirect.
She wants more space between us, and that doesn't mean less intimacy.
In fact, it often means more intimacy.
There are different modes of intimacy, and the Sufis are adept at understanding this,
the difference between the direct and the indirect, and the peculiar profundity of the indirect.
If someone asks casually how I am, I may answer in different ways, but the music in my voice
will say far more than the words do.
If there's a couple, perhaps this couple are both women, or they're both men, biologically,
and the one who is working comes home after work, and the one
who is home-making has been at home all day, and the one who comes home says, how is your day, dear?
And the one who is home says, it was okay.
You can hear in the music that something's missing.
And maybe they have a routine, and maybe sometimes the one who is home goes to work,
and the one who works is the home.
There are many tropes around what we consider these days, what we speak about as traditional gender roles,
and I find all of this rather troubling, though I can understand
some of the imperatives or purposes that have produced the great confusion we presently enjoy.
You know, the typical gender trope is that the man goes to work and the woman is the homemaker,
and there's every kind of variance of that, and that's entirely natural, except where it isn't,
except where it's been imposed somehow.
But I just mean that long ago it occurred to me in a very clear way that every moment of expression
of a human being is a unique moment of mixtures, of gender potentials.
Every exchange has both, and more,
and is never just one thing because underneath the masculine is the feminine,
and perhaps inside the feminine is the masculine.
Perhaps surrounding the masculine is the feminine, and extending from the feminine is the masculine.
But there's something to the polarities that we shouldn't lose sight of.
I won't say the sun is a boy and the moon is a girl.
Actually, I just said that.
And yet, there's a natural kind of intuition
that's far deeper than words and concepts, ideas, and models.
And we have senses for the polarities.
We just don't have names for them.
They all get lumped together under intuition.
When children are little, and they're very small, they don't communicate with words.
They may use sound, but they use it in a more primordial way.
I remember there's a store by my home with a very high ceiling.
It's wide open up there.
And because of the acoustics of the building, it's possible to make an extremely loud sound in there.
And one day,
I was there getting something, probably milk.
And a young mother had her infant in her arms.
And the infant, well, I hadn't noticed it, really.
But it suddenly emitted this incredibly piercing tone,
incredibly high pitched.
And in the structure of the building, that sound penetrated everything.
It overwhelmed everything.
It was like a shout of enlightenment.
It was entirely non-ordinary, and at the same time, perfectly ordinary.
And the mother, who was a few feet in front of me,
she looked embarrassed or concerned suddenly, and she said, oh, I'm sorry.
And I said, there's no need to apologize.
They're like little dolphins, aren't they?
They're touching the world with their sound.
And the mother just lit up.
And I lit up.
We both lit up.
Everybody lit up.
And it was beautiful because we remembered each other.
And proprieties were set aside in favor of the primordial.
And that's a beautiful moment.
That's a moment of being less wrong.
And you can't really explain it, even though I'm having a go at it.
Or perhaps, at least, I'm trying to describe it.
I'm not afraid to say what is sensible to me
about our natures, our origins, about gender,
even though this topic has become extremely confusing.
And it's certainly true that there's a problem, or a library of problems,
that are our historical inheritances that involve prejudice.
I remember I had visited a young rabbi here in town.
We used to get together once a month and have a singing night where we would all sing
together.
And this was a traditional kind of thing.
And I was an outsider because I'm not Jewish.
And there were women and men, both.
And I was fascinated with them and the singing that we did together.
And just the fact that we were doing it.
And I was very hopeful that we could all learn together.
And I remember a man,
one time when we were alone together on a walk,
he turned to me. He was a young man, very beautifully minded in his way,
but also confused in his way, much as I am.
He turned to me and he said,
you understand, don't you, that the women are our property,
like cattle or something we own.
And this is a very old problem, ancient problem,
that has bred terrible suffering on earth.
The unjustified presumption
that the man is supreme.
A very bizarre presumption in my mind, in all kinds of ways,
but the simplest being that every man who ever lived began his existence
as an organ in the body of his mother.
And her body made an organ that could go outside of her
in the world, in a way different from how she is in the world.
The two birds are both audacious. They're just differently audacious.
And when I was young, I clove to my mother,
and though I was audacious and had some courage,
it was a different kind of courage. It wasn't the courage to fight or win,
it was the courage to love and include. It was warm and soft and vulnerable and sensitive.
And these are qualities that are traditionally associated with the feminine.
But those associations are not explicit.
They're not laws. They're not rules.
They're inheritances in thinking and categorization and classification,
which means they're very fussy and can transform in all kinds of ways,
in any individual, in any group.
And yet,
you know, these questions have many layers.
At the layer of biology, men don't have wounds. Women don't have testicles.
But at the layer of identity, how we think of and see ourselves in the world,
the physical basis is neither the beginning nor the end.
It's a potential that can transform in an instant.
I'm not afraid to talk about men and what I know of them or women and what I've learned of them.
And there's certainly a woman inside me.
But I don't have to decide that the qualities of my being are either masculine or feminine.
In fact, I can recognize them without that overlay.
And in that sense, they're like constellations of potentials that transform over time and
circumstance. In my life, I have fought little and loved much.
But given a choice, I'd still have fought less and loved more.
Oh, how I love the living beings. What a privilege it is
to exist on a world so diversely embodied in endless forms and ways.
Some that fly and some that crawl, some that are gigantic and some that are small.
Some are tiny, some are vast.
Some just starting, some departing.
Some are first, some are last.
It's a very strange wonder to live in this time.
2021. When I was a child, this was the distant future.
And back in the 60s and 70s, we imagined, as you can see,
our species is still diluted by this idea, that technology would rescue us from everything.
We could do away with war and pollution and disease and hatred and prejudice and privilege
and we could live together in harmony with and for each other and the history and future of life
on earth, which is how I want to live. Or a way of saying something about how I,
what I believe in living for.
It's a great blessing to have tissues,
but the tissues come from trees.
I'm grateful for the tiny blessings. Well, they're not tiny really, but to have clothing,
that when I turn on the faucet in my home, fresh water comes out.
Of course, it's poisoned by chlorine and who knows what else now. But I have a water filter too.
I can cook food. I can obtain food and I don't have to kill it to eat it.
And some would say that's hypocritical and I want to argue with them at the root.
But I'm not made for killing.
Though I suppose in the right circumstances, I can kill.
And I have killed. I've killed creatures.
I deeply regret it, but I have killed.
And I've harmed myself
in various situations of fear, anger, resentment, spitefulness, vengefulness.
But anger does not come naturally to me.
I think it's funny that the word danger can be seen as a peculiar French word
or maybe a last name, the anger, the anger, danger.
I trust in direction more in language and communication than I trust assertion declaration.
And the reason is simple.
Indirection has spacious dimensionality whereas assertion and declaration
they kind of tell us what to see or think. I'm very suspicious of that.
And it's a bit bizarre in the gender dialogue to see the lay of the landscape
and how declaration has become a kind of disease
in the quest for something we imagine to be equality. But equality cannot and must never be imposed.
Equality is the result of meaningful relational contexts and roles and behaviors.
And if we don't establish those together, moment to moment, day by day,
and preserve and nurture and grow them, then what we'll have is not equality.
What we'll have is hatred. What we'll have is new forms of prejudice and anger, danger.
And I'm not for that. Insight and compassion,
wonder and mutual concern, these are principles that are deeply important to me.
But they can't be enforced. They have to naturally emerge in contexts
where we're being truly human together like we were when we were little, most of us.
And we must remember always the incredible uniqueness of any individual, profoundly unique.
No matter what qualities we may associate with them,
like some kind of shopping list. Oh, he's strong. He's fierce. He's, oh, she's strong. She's fierce.
Oh, he's soft. He cries. Oh, she's soft. She cries.
The boy is audacious. The girl is reserved.
And there are many facts that, again, are generalizations, and so we should
leave a lot of space for their exceptions.
But men have been fighting and killing and hunting
for many, many, many generations. And women have been gathering and nurturing,
cooking food for many, many generations. And this doesn't tell us what men are or what women are.
What it's useful for is to understand that
some of the qualities we associate with genders,
however confusedly we may do so,
are not entirely inappropriate.
Yes, women can hunt and fight. Yes, men can love and mother.
