And they're like, oh, never mind that. What do you mean?
No, that was just a bunch of mistakes we made a long time ago.
And Sheldrake said, well, how do you know that?
And they said, well, we've generalized all the observations now, so that the actual speed of light is the mean.
Or it was something like the average.
Actually, I think those two things are different, average and mean.
We were just confused back then.
And Sheldrake said, well, what if the speed of light was actually varying?
And the guy said, well, we wouldn't know.
And Sheldrake said, why not?
What do you mean we wouldn't know?
And the man said, well, we've defined the meter in terms of the average speed, so we would never notice the divergence.
In other words, we've defined the thing we measure with according to the generalization of the observation of light speed.
So that if it were varying, we would not find out.
Now, I mean, this is apropos of much of human history.
And unfortunately, significant problems in language, science, and much more rarely mathematics.
The mathematicians have certainly believed in saying things before.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I know what happened to my own mind when suddenly the iridescent light of transcendent intelligence arose within it, restructuring it, reforming it.
That was certainly among the most dangerous things that could possibly have happened to me.
If your goal was safety, if your goal was sanity, you know, you'd stay in the box.
Part of the Vulcan blessing, live long and prosper, is confused.
Because if long life, if the habitual gravity of physical safety prevails over our life, such that we live into dotted...
There's lots of leakage, right? I mean, there's lots of leakage when it comes to, like, using the energy.
Physicists, very clear. They're talking about energy leakage, which is, you know, a weirdly inappropriate topic in my own conversation.
Some physicists from Britain were just walking by, I think they're from Britain, were just walking by me and talking.
You know, if you're the kind of a person who wouldn't mind being encapsulated in some kind of spacecraft alone and shot off into space,
then old age, you know, might be enjoyable to you, but it turns out that what you really want to...
You don't want to just get yourself killed, right? You don't want to be so bold that adventure snuffs you,
because you're probably going to just have to start over again.
On the other hand, you, at the same time, one would not want to be so safe that the life, the span of a life within it,
there's no meaningful content or intelligence, no orienting intelligence.
An artist, you know, one of the best paths for people that live long is art.
Though some forms of art, dancing comes to mind, are unlikely to be practicable in our older age.
And why am I on this topic?
Those matchsticks, right?
I remember in one conversation I was having with a friend, we were talking about UFOs,
and I think I said something resembling the quote of Salvador Dali's,
other people do drugs, I am drugs.
And I think I said something like, other people talk about UFOs, I am UFOs.
If you want to fly to the outer space and you want to traverse dimensions,
my mind is a pretty good vehicle, or at least something resembling an ignition switch.
I'll give you some fuel, and with luck, something that can ignite that fuel.
And hopefully, if I've given you good fuel, if we've given each other good fuel,
then the burn will be coherent and not destroy the vehicle, right?
When you see spacecraft, actually, the kind of vehicle that I think my mind comprises is not the kind that burns fuel to travel.
And any intelligent being would realize that if you have to burn fuel to travel, you're not going to get anywhere.
And you'll quickly soil your own environment, so catastrophically that you better be able to get off planet right quick if you start doing that.
But my goal wasn't to blow my own horn or peacock here.
I'm just trying to say, like, I'm interested in what is above, beneath, and within ordinary human cognition.
Where does that stuff come from?
Why is it so, why is it malfunctioned so catastrophically in so many ways?
What is the origin of the problem of injustice that our species faces the new monster of every day?
I'm fascinated by the important questions, like the root questions of existence, all of them.
I do not recognize that sound.
But yeah, I think I said to one of my friends, you know, other people talk about UFOs, I am UFOs.
This is partly true, but I'm also just as human as anyone else and encumbered by particularly the ironies of having a body
and a mind that plays with concepts and structure as if they are real.
You know, if you meet others who are precociously intelligent, and this isn't always the result of crisis in their formative years,
so many of them, for many, there's a correlation there, right?
And, you know, correlation isn't the same as cause.
I did suffer an unusual crisis shortly after birth, which thankfully was quickly resolved, and my childhood was compared to many other children relatively idyllic.
My parents loved each other, a psychiatrist or psychologist will notice that the way that I spoke, just there where I said the instead of my, must be meaningful.
But yeah, the parents were congenial and themselves pretty intelligent, unincline, too radical divergences from caring behavior and so forth.
So yeah, I had a pretty good childhood, but I was very precocious quite early, and when you, if you encounter other humans, or if you yourself are unusually intelligent,
you will recognize one particular feature, which is the children realized fairly early that something was either wrong with the minds of the adults, or they were lying, or both.
And this often has something to do with language itself, and the children wrestling with the peculiarities of the difference between what is said and what is clearly either true or enacted,
and also the very peculiar gravitational anomaly that arises in human consciousness and behavior that arises around prohibitions.
You know, if I say something like, don't not forget to think about that thing that you're trying not to think about. This is a typical example of the K-N-O-T-T-Y, right, the naughty problem of language prohibition and consciousness.
So yeah, children are very canny, and they're hyper-aware of these things, and once they realize that something's wrong with the adults, and that the adults are not doing the things they're saying, and they clearly can't mean the things that they're saying,
then the children can't tell whether the adults are intentionally defecting, or there's something broken in them, but they sense that something is fundamentally wrong.
So for example, when I was a child, and I have memories going back to fairly, I have a few memories going back to fairly early in my childhood, and yes, I'm aware that those are the most likely to be distorted or reforged in some ways,
but I was a child who had a natural adoration for living beings, plants and insects and snails and worms and little fishes and so forth.
So whenever the adults would use poison on them, I was very concerned about this, because they, my parents had told me, for example, that the organisms are delicate and they should be handled with care.
So if they then killed them, this presented a conflict.
But what I'm trying to get at here is that there's a kind of a fundamental mistrust of the superficial products of the human cognizium and language that is common among prodigies.
Now along with this often comes something resembling mental illness or instability or vulnerability.
But children who, for example, I mean there are two kinds, there are sort of two kinds of prodigies that you'll see evidence of in elementary school.
In elementary school, one of the kinds is they simply won't participate in what are called scholastic endeavors and the other is that they outperform the other children fairly dramatically.
And hopefully without much, I mean they probably quickly learn not to lord that over the other children in any way, not to wave the flag of their supremacy around, because the other children will attack them and inject them if they do that.
So, you know, lots of humans of this type and various people who may be understood to belong to certain clinical categories I will not here mention also have similar experience.
They are alternately minded. I usually use the phrase uniquely minded.
And, you know, my father was very concerned that this would become a burden for me.
It has been. I've paid certain prices, but most of the prices that I paid were not so much because of my some uncommon aspect of my intelligence or my capacity to demonstrate that.
Rather, they were most of the repercussions that were, I think, negative, right, loss of relationships and so forth, had more to do with like not being able to properly read my companion's concerns or state of their emotions or, right.
I kind of went through life thinking we're all on the same page here. We're trying to solve the most important things to solve. We're trying to chase the sky, the angels, the origins of intelligence together.
And other people are like, dude, can we just catch a break and have some bonding?
This is something my son pointed out to me recently.
But I imagine that many others have similar experience to this and I'm not. I think the reason that I got on this topic was
I was linguistically, I had the marker of hyperlex, hyperlexical cognition when I was young.
I read a lot is a simpler way of saying it. And so my mind had many parents that were not my parents, the parents of my body, particularly science fiction authors, as those of you know me now.
Now the thread here that I'm going to recover is that actually living into old age is not particularly rewarding unless you are surrounded by loving, caring, family, students, so forth, right.
You have to have something to walk with you toward the gateway of death and most people who live long, that is not a blessing, though there are some for whom it is.
You watch all of your friends and family die, you become feeble, your cognition changes, your capacity to enact whatever creativity might once have practiced usually declines, not always.
Others fail to see you, right.
They no longer, if there's one prejudice in the West that's totally fatal to every participant, it's the rejection of an eviction from concern of the elderly.
They are not seen unless they have some way they can demonstrate value very directly.
Authors are less likely to be alone, artists of various kinds, but as I approach my own dotted, I've got to say the landscape is unbelievably grim.
And looks like a kind of, like a situation where, how to put it, where one is consigned to a prison invisible to others while in their relational midst, right.
So you're in the midst of people relating very effusively and fervently and passionately, but not with you.
I've got to tell you, like this is some terrifying nightmare sauce in terms of having to live through it. I've been in similar situations before due to unusual life circumstances, and I've just recently celebrated my 60th birthday.
And now I am starting, I'm just beginning to understand what my recently deceased father must have been suffering without giving voice to that suffering and its grim and terrifying.
So you know, I'm not so sure about the live long part of live long and prosper. Maybe in the imaginary universe of Vulcan society, the elders are revered.
Though I recall a specific episode of Star Trek where Spock's father, I think there's a couple of episodes where his father is present but malfunctioning.
Funny his name escapes me at the moment, but it probably doesn't escape those of you who watch Star Trek.
In one of the episodes, he is fighting to maintain mental coherence with a series of specific meditations designed to avoid this problem.
And what's happening is that although he's avoiding the problem in his own mind, he's projecting a field that's affecting the entire starship.
And his breakdown is breaking down the relational integrity of an entire vessel. So evicted, the problem is evicted from his own mind, but then takes up residence in the local environment.
I deeply wish that that man would stop making the opposite of music that he makes on that corner nearly every day.
But I also understand that he is in his cottage. I mean, he's doing what Star Trek, you know, he's probably gravely struggling to retain his skills and give something back to the world perhaps.
But what he's actually emitting is vicious to my ears.
The mysteries of our humanity are beautiful and profound, but they are also tragic and desperate.
So I would ask that we look with kindness and gentleness on our own struggles and life paths, and particularly on the plight.
Everyone's concerned about the women and children to some degree, but we should be at least as concerned about the plight of the elderly and pay them very special attention and care.
Any society that disposes of them in the way that ours does, or this one does, should be highly suspect, right?
The children were right. The adults aren't doing what they're saying. They don't value. They don't see the beauty in value in their own progenitors, ancestors, companions, and those who gave them care when they were young.
Or something a bit stranger happens, which is the children become so concerned with their own, naturally, so concerned with their own crisis of disimpersonment that our cultures generate, that they're sort of checked out.
And then their elders perish, and with a shock they realize, oh, this was the boat we were floating in, the boat of my mother's soul, the vessel of my father's soul.
This was the only thing keeping us from, you know, foundering.
Well, I am nearly at my home where I will meet with my landlord briefly.
And so for today, I will wind up hereabouts. I'm so grateful to all of you who listen and explore together with me.
And I hope my voice is a comfort and, in some ways, a bit of a lighthouse for your own intelligences, speculations, creativities, and inclination to wonder and play in the fields of the intelligences from which our own minds were born.
I look forward to traveling together again very soon, and I'd be grateful if you would take a moment to subscribe, like, or comment.
Ask me questions, I'll chase them. Thank you for joining me. All blessings to you and those you love, those they love, and those who love you. Bye-bye for now.
