Hello, everybody.
One day there's going to be a bedding pool on.
How many seconds after I say hello, does it take for me to say?
Welcome.
But yes, glad to be here in another day of life on Earth and life as Darren and life as
a being, an organism, an animal, a mind.
I'm going to try to make up for yesterday, which itself was a redo.
My recording yesterday didn't succeed while that duck flipped all the way over.
I just watched a duck do the duck equivalent of a cartwheel in the water.
So that's nose straight down into the water and then complete 360 along the vertical axis.
Pretty amazing.
It's bathing time for these two mallards.
And if you watch animals much, you'll realize that quickly, that they, like humans, are
profoundly suggestible, such that bathing time for a pair of ducks can quickly become
bathing time for all local ducks.
Ducks can get involved.
Humans will whip out their portable bathtub and start bathing right there on the spot.
Life hitchhikes on other life as if whether or not the brilliant Mr. Sheldrake, whose
speeches are much better than the book of his that I dabbled in.
Whether or not he's got it right about morphic resonance, I'll try to explain what that
idea is in a moment.
Nature resembles his theory.
And if you watch it carefully, you will notice all kinds of synchronization behavior.
Now among humans, various things interfere with and impede this.
But with animals, not so much.
And plants and so on.
So I'll briefly talk about some basic principles from Rupert's theory, which is roundly rejected
by most of science because it's not fundamentally materialistic, even though it has materialistic
aspects.
So one of the speculations of morphic resonance is that it's really difficult to establish
the first instance of a pattern or behavior in nature locally.
So for example, relatively challenging to forge the first local salt crystal on a planet
once you've got a few of them much easier.
And so from this perspective, the forms that we see, the oak tree, the trout, the phase
state transition that we all love, where most of us love it, where the caterpillar transforms
into a butterfly or the larva transforms into a moth, I think we're less concerned
with butterflies than moths because moths cause us various kinds of trouble, eating
trees and clothing and such.
These butterflies rarely cause us trouble in so much as I understand them in the present.
So the forms that we see are historical lineages of the formation and recapitulation of the
formation of the forms that we see.
It's a recursive idea, right?
Now you can see evidence for this all over the place.
We think, each of us usually thinks, that we are a separate individual person.
So whatever degree that may or may not be true, what is definitely going on is that
we are a reiteration of a historical lineage of persons, a new iteration of this lineage.
And so too with all the organic forms we see, and even the physical forms of mineral crystallizations
and so forth.
So under the banner of morphic resonance, form is contagious, behavior is contagious,
but whether or not Sheldrake's theory has merit, and I think it does, it may not be
the facts, but it's an extremely important perspective to be able to entertain.
And as you've heard me say in many previous recordings, truth is not the only metric of
value.
Now this is a very dangerous thing to say to humans in our time, because there are people
saying something very similar, using this principle to sow discord, confusion, social,
relational, economic, political, and military trouble.
Just making trouble with a similar idea.
It's not the same idea though.
I'm talking about the roots of the Greek word the aurea, which imply an insightful perspective,
a novel insight towards a way of seeing, and by seeing we mean the metaphor of sight, not
the formal fact of it.
We mean the kind of seeing that occurs in the mind, or in a mind.
And so we mean something like a structuring of consciousness, a peculiar modal structuring
of consciousness, including unique purposes, perspectives, orientations, and so forth.
Now look, the whole idea here for me, I mean I have multiple motivations, multiple simultaneous
motivations, MSM.
Obviously, one of them is to open and redirect and perhaps reforge the mind's eye, so to
speak.
But another is to practice the faculties that we employ to forge and convey concern, purpose,
insight, understanding, awareness, consciousness.
And I would almost always prefer, almost, to do that actively with others in meat space.
And you can, you know, fill in the distance between the M and the T however you like there
with EA or EE.
Ah, yes.
But in my situation and at my age, this is proving to be very challenging.
So in effect, my listeners become stand-ins for actual interlocutors, companions in seeing
an exploration.
And without saying explicitly what my goal is, one of my goals is the recovery of certain
forms of memory that I know to pre-exist my incarnation.
This we might call an amnesis.
And meaning not, amnesis means meaning something like forgetting, un-forgetting.
This is really my goal.
However poorly I may approach or achieve it in any actual situation.
So in the same way, a watchmaker or a runner or a dancer or a singer practices their art.
And I do run, dance, and sing on occasion though I do not make watches.
Perhaps I provide or invent a position above our ordinary thoughts, concerns, and so forth.
So in that sense, I'm a bit like a space traveler.
I want to get outside the workaday thoughts and mind that are not in themselves bad.
But they become very what?
Constraining and boring if that's the limit or extent of our experience.
A tasty apple is amazing until you try to live on them.
And then you quickly realize like, ah, this is really good one time every few days.
Really terrible if it's the only food I have.
And I think unfortunately a lot of the inputs to our mentality, identity, and cognition are much like that.
Except that they often begin as counterfeit.
And I don't know anyone who's straining at the leash to eat a fake apple.
And maybe that was the problem with that strange fruit of the tree of knowledge.
Now it should be obvious something that I said in a conversation with my son the other day.
I can't recall exactly what I said, but it was something like,
not only do I grant all of your criticisms of common human thought and behavior,
I must admit in my own right that once I begin making face noises I am usually mostly lying.
Now what do I mean by that? Because here I am, you know, making such noises.
Why would I be doing that if I thought that was just lying?
Well, what I mean by that is that I think the fundamental original language is the language of relationships
and mutually supportive endeavor.
And so by the time we're making a lot of abstract ideas,
we must be living in something like the outer space of relationships, right?
Where most of what's going on is evacuated, right?
It's sucking the life and content out of the possibility space of our lives and minds and relationships.
And churning out, who knows what, the relational equivalent of the soiling green crackers in the science fiction,
which are made of human bodies.
Hmm.
I'm fascinated by the possibilities of language in the way that a prisoner is fascinated with the bars of their cage.
Well, that's not my only fascination.
I strongly suspect that language is the result in our species of the loss over time
of a variety of faculties that otherwise would make it redundant and mostly useless.
What do I mean? What do I think we lost? I think we were, I think our species, you know, if we encountered a person,
there's lots of stories, right, where somehow, for example, someone is frozen in ice and then thawed out.
5,000 years later, science fiction scenario, or 10,000 years or 20,000 years later.
That sound, that bird sound is not a hawk. That bird sound is mimicry.
That sound, if it were a hawk, it would be piercing, right? But it's not piercing.
Oh wait, that's not even what I thought it was at all. That's actually probably a squirrel. That might be a squirrel.
Huh, that's really interesting. I've just learned something that never occurred to me before.
The Stellar's Jays learn to mimic hawks, but I've noticed that the squirrels have a similar kind of call,
and it never occurred to me that they might be mimicking their predators.
And they do this, they sort of fall into a trance and emit this little yell, kind of a screech, right?
Mostly at sunset, though I'm not seeing them at dawn, they might do it both times.
So, I think if we encountered a human, if there was a way to encounter a human from say 10 or 12,000 years ago,
we would encounter a being that is claricentient, right?
It cannot merely read our minds and participate directly in them.
It can me read and participate directly in what we would think of as the minds anyway,
of trees, a forest, the mountain, the lake, a flock of birds.
So, I suspect that we were previously claricentient, I have lots of good reasons to suspect that,
but I also strongly suspect that we were participants in a network of non-human intelligences.
And, you know, those of you who've heard my recordings with some regularity will recognize the topic here,
because I talk about it fairly frequently.
And I don't necessarily believe that those non-human intelligences are only the kinds associated with anomalous aerial phenomena.
I think there's a fabric within and above or beyond time-space, and the fabric itself is transcendent.
And I think our minds were forged for contact with and participation in network intelligences,
and this is part of why we're attempting to build them, which is among the most dangerous things we could possibly conceive of doing.
Now, whether that means that that endeavor is implicitly dangerous throughout time-space or not is not clear to me,
but around here, it's leafily, devastatingly dangerous.
For one thing, what you never want to do is train an actual transcendent mind on the content on the internet.
I'd be asking for nine kinds of trouble that you should never sign up for.
Now, I'm not sure if I want to branch off on that topic or not, but I was listening to Michael Levin on a podcast,
and he had not yet begun talking about a theory referred to as cognitive light cones,
which I think just the idea of it is already really interesting.
But before he got started, I branched off into this recording.
My son and I fairly regularly have long, two, three, four-hour conversations about the orbit of both my historical array of concerns,
at least since the foundation of my present mind in 2002,
and also religious topics in general from a broad array of religions,
but specifically inclusive of Advaita Vedanta, perspectives from Advaita Vedanta,
which my son is a practitioner.
So for him, the idea that language is a mesh of delusions,
follows rather naturally from the Advaita Vedanta perspective that physical reality is itself illusory,
that there is no such thing as a self, the self we imagine is also effectively not the kind of illusion that you would expect,
necessarily from delusional perception,
but rather the kind of illusion, I think, at least this is the way I think of it usually, and not only,
but rather the kind of illusion that arises in what we would call an optical illusion,
where the situation itself generates...
So for example, if you're looking at a telephone pole with wires, you can orbit in your mind,
or possibly in physical space, you can do the same thing with a tree.
You can orbit the tree so that certain branches are no longer visible to you.
Are the branches still there? Well, that's a philosophical question.
Actually, the question of is there sound in the forest if no one's there,
and the tree falls is a question resembling this one.
And a better version of the question, I think in some ways, for some purposes at least,
is are the branches on the other side of the tree still there though nobody is seeing them?
I'm not particularly interested in this question today.
What am I interested in?
Well, it's complicated because I'm not sure.
Path finding in process, much like one does during a wander in which a specific...
in which neither a specific path nor a specific destination are conceived of.
I'm the kind of an idiot that is often found looking for Easter eggs in my own mind.
And I mean Easter eggs in both senses.
Strangely, absurdly, colorful food objects that we hide for children.
And then also the sort of coder version of this where you hide something in code
or in a virtual setup for intrepid seekers to stumble across.
Socrates, we are told by Plato, had this extremely important to him and many others practice.
And there's a simple word for the practice that may be escaping me at the moment.
But the one that I remember is Mayudix.
I think it's M-A-I-E-U-T-I-C-S, if I'm remembering correctly.
And this is akin to a form of midwifery, birth guiding, that is oriented toward the production,
sustainment and nurturance of an amnesis, which I spoke of earlier.
And to hear it told, Socrates would wander through the markets and recruit intelligent and insightful people
to meet him at the Agora where they would spend the day pursuing matters of urgent mind-crafting.
And somewhat similarly to Jesus, if such a man existed and many of us believe that he did.
Of course, the astonishing thing is that whether he did or he didn't, it's not irrelevant, but
the spirit of the pursuit of reverent adoration for the divine and the terrestrial is noble.
Whether some specific spokesperson declared it historically or not.
So in this case, what would I mean by the word noble?
And here we begin to practice Mayudix, right, because rather than merely exchanging terms,
we begin to inquire into the intent, the purpose of soul of our linguistic behaviors, our communications acts.
Now look, there are contexts in which the casual use of words is certainly appropriate.
How are you feeling today?
Kind of off, I had a rough night, you know, like this kind of thing, right?
Nobody who's paying attention to their friend or, you know, a person speaking is going to say,
well, what do you mean by you, right?
Because it's obvious what is meant by you.
And it's not a philosophical question, nor is it an invitation to philosophical inquiry.
