It's a friendly, you know, friendly context.
Surely the person who pretends like we could write comedy skits,
where someone, you know, always pretends that every use of language should be questioned this way, right?
You know, at the marketplace, how much for the apple, what do you mean by how?
Right, like, we could have a lot of fun with such skits in our imagination,
or possibly, you know, in TikTok videos.
Thankfully, that's not my game.
Though I do deeply appreciate and engage in humor as a form of intelligence.
So I like to think, and maybe I'm pretending, and maybe I'm pretentious,
but it could be both. Both could be true.
That you and I, and that my listeners as a clade and I,
are engaging in my eutics. Unfortunately, it's 2024. Socrates is dust.
Though some of his ideas reach us perhaps through his student Plato,
who was probably about as confused about Socrates as it is possible to be, yet adored him.
Or rather, there are certain things that Plato was extremely confused about related to Socrates.
That's a safer bet.
So I like to think that we're engaged in something noble and beautiful.
And in this case, what do I mean by noble?
Rarely do I have to ask myself such a question,
because for me, it's a bit like a guy's holding it, you know, someone is holding a compass.
It's the old kind of compass. It has a magnetic needle.
And it's happening here on Earth in a time when the Earth's magnetic fields are relatively stable.
This person doesn't have to ask what he himself means by North on the compass.
And nobility in the sense that I'm using it and intending it here,
is the orienting direction toward the true, the good, the beautiful, the holy,
the holy, perhaps origin is a word that I would employ here.
And I have a trope that I like to use, which I think is a direction we can actually travel in together,
whatsoever we should agree to, and sometimes without the necessity of formal agreement.
Which are thoughts, imaginings, and behaviors that are so profound and heroic,
liberating, prison-shattering, that they comprise the opposite of a bomb.
These are visions and embodied, enacted perspectives that are so potent.
That all of our ancestors, were they able, would sit up in their graves and cheer.
In fact, probably the entire history and future of life on Earth would applaud and say yes, yes to this.
And one can say, well, that's impossible. No, actually, it's not impossible.
If you've ever been present at the birth of a human child, I have been present at one such event.
Something very similar is going on there, and there are many other places where it is going on.
And I promise you, those places are not near the goalposts of sporting events, political rallies.
Perhaps long ago, in some cases, successful military engagements may have qualified when they diverted the human future from catastrophic disorientation.
In such cases, yes. Otherwise, definitely no. You're killing my children, the Earth might say.
The sky would say.
And it's natural for the human beings to think of themselves as children of the Earth.
But we are not merely children of the Earth. We are children of the sky. We are children of the before of the sky.
And that's one of the features that religion sometimes attempts to remind us to recall to awareness.
Often in my prayers, I will say something resembling hand in hand, one family, one heart, one spirit, one origin.
Which recalls this true inheritance of ours.
The gene package that builds our bodies is obviously astonishingly profound.
But there is something far beyond it.
That the many eyes of our souls recognize.
Should it ever appear to them in our waking lives?
As if...
I hesitate to say this, and probably for some reasonably good reason, but I'm going to go against my better judgment and say it anyway.
If a transcendent artificer had not merely impressed their fingerprint into the fundamental basis of physical reality,
but rather the opposite, all of physical reality, all of form, all of mind, all of consciousness, all of structure,
is emerging instantaneously from the impassioned spirit of such an artificer, a watchmaker, if you will, except that it doesn't make machines.
Thank goodness.
The fingerprint I speak of is accessible to us, even in waking, ordinary waking consciousness.
And the humans are aware that under conditions of extremis, we may be awakened from the sort of stupors of tedium
that often capture our consciousness.
So many different things.
So many different topics and subjects and perspectives are on my little drafting table at the moment.
But occasionally I just become confused by their profusion, which is why in some of my recordings I birdwalk quite a bit.
I prefer it when I have a focused, you know, the funny thing that might not be apparent.
I'm not sure to what degree it may be to those who listen to me.
And those who listen to me know, in some ways they may know me better than I know myself by far because they hear.
You know, I sort of see the footsteps of my mind from outside, whereas I myself am inside that hall of mirrors most of the time.
And, you know, the humans are very interested in getting to space so they can colonize and obliterate anything that they find out there with machines and war and stuff.
Presuming that they would...
Okay, all right, here's the topic.
So I remember a really profound film.
I think the book was written by S.E. Hinton.
That's H-I-N-T-O-N, if I remember correctly.
And I remember sometime around the time I was, like, 18, 19, Francis Ford Coppola produced a film called Rumblefish.
Just heard a bird I've never heard before and someone else has heard it too.
Or at least I heard a bird whose call I do not recognize.
But I know this bird.
Huh.
Or maybe not.
I was profoundly affected by this film.
And for some reason, it is difficult for me to be deeply affected by media.
I guess there's a bunch of complex reasons why that might be so.
One of them, though, is that I remember the flavor of transcendent intelligence from a mind that once invested my mind with its experience.
And it cast all human endeavor into a kind of shadow because of the terrible divine brightness of that mind.
You know, if not buffered, would have slain me instantly.
But it knew human minds and so it buffered the intelligence.
But I remember from Rumblefish a scene.
A couple of brothers had an alcoholic father brilliantly portrayed in the film.
Everything in that film is fucking amazing to me still, right?
I'm not sure I want to taste that fruit again, but I strongly recommend it.
And I won't spoil it here.
How am I going to do that now?
So the humans want to go to outer space.
And there's little reason to believe that they would behave intelligently, even if they were let out of the cage.
Presuming that Earth is something we could call a cage.
And it seems likely that relieved of the compression that the Earth and gravity and our population and our machine population comprise.
It's at least conceivable that we might, like bonobos,
as chew war in favor of mutual adoration, loving kindness, intelligence.
And turn our minds from their fascination and subjugation with machines to something beautiful. It's conceivable.
Most likely we would not, it seems to me.
Though for a time we might.
And perhaps our nature, I mean I don't believe that our nature is fundamentally war-like.
I think it's the result of a series of accidents that damaged.
Faculties that would otherwise pervade over consciousness and behavior.
And that there were waves of this loss over time.
Much like the echoes of an impact event.
You know, if someone throws, say, a stone into the water, for example, right, you'll see these ripples.
And I think what's happening inside our species is that our species, our cognition, is like that water.
And each of the ripples drive us.
Further from our true nature and deprive us further of faculties essential to our well-being.
And two of the symptoms of those waves, those ripples, are language and machines.
And war, if you aren't building a lot of machines, you're unlikely to have war.
And even if you do have war, and there are peoples who are ancient who will say, oh, bullshit, we had war.
All we needed was arrows or knives or anything, right?
We had war with fists and feet.
And maybe that's true, at least occasionally.
But it's not true universally.
I believe that in a nurturing context, in a loving context, our species would become as beautifully relational as they would become prodigiously intelligent.
However, intelligence itself may, as we usually think of it anyway, and particularly the intelligences associated with materialism and mechanism.
They may be fertilized by crisis.
And the crisis of the loss of faculties that would otherwise unify us in loving kindness and generosity and mutual concern.
It might be that much of prodigy would perish in the face of peace.
Certainly many people have thought as much, and not a few have remarked upon it.
They are inclined to believe, those who have thusly remarked, that artistic beauty and creativity are the benefit, or like something that crisis and war and inner conflict naturally produce.
Testing, okay.
Yeah, what happened yesterday is I took a break and then somehow during the break, the connector for the mic dislodged so that the next half of my talk was lost.
I don't know what would happen to the humans if they were freed from the compression.
But I also don't know what would happen to the humans if suddenly something shifted and they were reconnected to the originary intelligences.
Our minds were born in the iridescent light of, and I would suggest that if we were able to actually, if we were able to hear from human infants and babies,
we would hear many reports of these intelligences that are parental or pre-parental.
And that our children undergo something similar to what's happened to our species.
They recapitulate the loss of the relationships with the originary intelligences or transcendences.
Humans have words for these things like gods, angels, demons, devas, genie, jinn.
They probably have lots of other words that I've never heard that I would like to hear, too.
The other night, that's some time ago now, but I have a box of wooden matches, and okay, here we go.
There's so many things on my table right now.
So one of the topics that I played around with over the past couple days that I haven't visited yet today is the uptick of anomalies
that has been occurring for the past.
There's the Monty Python skit about the Spanish Inquisition.
Now one expects the Spanish Inquisition.
Our chief weapons are fear, surprise, fear.
They just keep adding to the weapons.
And Nicholas, wait, Nassim Nicholas Taleb, I read a book some time ago.
That I read called The Black Swan about the influence of unexpected world-shaking transitions on our lives.
And mostly about how unexpected they are, which is sort of like saying, you know, blue is really surprising.
It's so damn blue.
That blue is crazily blue.
But I don't have a clear structured memory of Taleb's book in my thought,
so it's possible that he did point in a direction similar to the one that I'm about to point to.
Nobody expected a black swan until they saw one and then it became commonplace to know that there were swans who were black.
But what, you know, the thing that really even probably Taleb didn't expect was that we might start producing factories that just keep producing nothing but anomalous.
You know, stand out.
History shattering anomalies.
A couple examples.
There was a time in, I think, 2020 when in three different egg cartons all the eggs had double yolks.
But the other night I was, I went to strike a match.
I opened the match.
The box strikes.
I've got a box of wooden matches.
And all of the matches in that box looked like what I expected.
The wood matches to look like.
There's a wooden stick.
And at the top, or you know, at one end we might say of the stick, there's some colored chemistry.
Almost certainly including things like sulfur and perhaps magnesium and so forth.
I'm not really sure what the standard complement of chemistry is in a match head is.
So yeah, all those matches, they look just like ordinary matches, but the one that I picked up was unlike any match I've ever seen.
Sulfur and match head substance
was dribbled along the entire length of the stick.
So most of the matches are white with a green head.
This match is white on three of its square sides, totally green on the other side.
If you strike this match and it ignites, it's going to burn the whole stick at once.
And the visual pun was so hilarious that I just started laughing.
Because I was like, oh shit, this is a visual pun of everything in my life.
How could it possibly be so universally punny?
You know, the ordinary matchstick is like other people's minds.
This matchstick is like Darren's mind, right?
The ordinary matchstick is every year prior to 2024.
The new matchstick is 2024, right?
It doesn't make any kind of sense at all.
And yet there it is, right?
It's real.
This isn't a matchstick, you know, comprised by an AI.
And one of the things that the humans are not expecting, much like the Spanish Inquisition,
and the next black swan in Taleb's view, is they would not suspect,
they think, the group think of the humans, is of a species that believes that tomorrow,
much like yesterday, will follow the same principles.
The groups of humans are dumb enough to call these principles laws.
As if there were a god, and as if the god were some strange kind of lawyer,
sitting up there with pen and, you know, quill and ink, writing the speed of light into stone.
The fine structure constant, and so forth.
Sheldrake, who I mentioned earlier, discovered that measurements of the speed of light
made a long time ago.
I can't recall how long ago, but let's say 80 years ago,
presuming that such things could have been measured.
Yeah, they must have been able to be measured back then.
He noticed that the speed of light, as measured back then, was like 20 kilometers per second slower,
which is a vast disagreement.
Well, something measured as carefully as the speed of light is.
So he went to the organization responsible, this is a big deal, right?
The organization responsible for the preservation and correction of metrics of all kinds.
What is an inch? What is a pound? What is an ounce? What does one degree of Celsius mean?
And he said, hey, I'm aware of this discrepancy.
