Hello everybody. Welcome.
It's funny from up high here on
Strawberry Hill in
Golden Gate Park in San Francisco.
I can look down on the surface of the waters
and I can see the fishes
of Ixtheos.
And I need to, I'm basically
I'm going to start this recording by making some corrections
to things I
misheard. I'm verbal
Monde de Green's if you will.
I was listening to
Aman Hillman
DC Aman Hillman
who I was listening to just a moment ago on
Gnostic and Former Podcast.
And there's so many things that
Hillman isn't saying directly
but is rather indirectly
implying. And that indirection is a sign
of nuanced sophistication in my view.
Because when you just out and out declare something
part of our mind naturally recoils
from this explicit conceptual
equivalence.
And note that word equa valence.
Equivalence.
And you know I think of myself
as a little bit of a cunning linguist. A slightly cunning linguist.
And I have some
familiarity with Hebrew which introduces to me the idea
of roots and their
primacy beneath the surface
of the languages that emerge
from the strange
almost pharmacological mixing
of ideas.
Eidolon, Eidolon, Eidol's
images.
I, Mage is.
Now that's the schizophrenic linguism.
The schizophrenic linguism sees that
library begins with lie and thinks it means falsehood
and probably doesn't know what brary means.
And I don't actually have any
background for that.
And a truly intelligent
person who is
suffering from and or enjoying
the schizogenesis of their
consciousness sometimes produced
or enhanced by drugs.
The truly intelligent
broken freeings.
What are these freeings?
They are like perhaps sheaves
or skeins.
They are
Well you know this I think was one of the Greek hypostasis
and I know enough to be dangerous but not enough
to be accurate. Ator, or the belly, the
cardio, or the heart.
The freeings.
What are the rest of them?
Nemosini,
aid me, come to my aid.
My real mother.
Freeings.
The hypostasis are a crucially important
topic introduced to me by Julian
Janes in his
sygenic text.
Right when I say that
somebody starts playing bagpipes
and it's the specific song
that is played
in the Monty Python skit.
Yeah, with the skirted bagpipers.
What are the other hypostasis?
cardio, ator, the freeings.
Well perhaps it will come back to me. Julian Janes' sygenic book
The Origins of Consciousness in the Breakdown
of the bicameral mind. Which title actually suggests
a kind of schizogenic
a multi-threaded
disunification
of consciousness and thought
in the epics of human history.
And in that book he argues
that our distant ancestors, and once again this is brilliant in terms of
theoria, it is good for seeing. We don't have to decide whether it's
factual or not. We can take the insight
we can filter
off the
profound, iridescent
surface of the liquid
and taste it in the eye of the mind
and we will know if it is good for seeing.
One of, you know, Janes has a variety of
theses and brilliantly introduces
some neologisms
to show us how
consciousness works after
bemoaning his attempts to understand it by testing animals
and not finding what he was looking for there
in his early education.
And he certainly got some things about the hemispheres wrong, but neuroscience was
early and he wasn't a neuroscientist. Really he was
a kind of a linguist and a philosopher who was
examining Homer, particularly, and the Greek,
which Hillman likens to an instrument
that liberates you from both
lies and modernity.
He likens it to a sort of linguistic
I was going to use the term hypodermic, but no, he would use this other term
that I will refrain from using,
which means a sexual implement that can be used
to introduce certain elixirs or
dotes, poisons, antidotes
to the human body via orifices.
Uh-huh.
I need to correct something before I get too lost here
and that is that in previous videos
I spoke of
Heima as if it were related
to the word hymen.
And this turns out to be almost certainly
incorrect as my friend
Nate Guimand explains
and he says
which I'm sure he's copying some stuff here, but
OK.
Hymen joining in Heima, heat, blood are technically not related.
Hymen means to join together, hence the goddess of marriage from the proto-New European root
syomen, to sew together, join her.
It is also recorded in Greek as I can't read the Greek word.
Heima
he also shows the Greek word blood
comes from the passive present perfect of Etho,
Esmae, from proto-Halaenaic
Eid
proto-Indo-European
Hyed, burn, or fire. Cognate with Latin
Aestis, Estius,
and Aedis, and Sanskrit
indhe to light set on fire.
I'm sure let's break down the etymology and meaning of hymen
and Heima, to understand technically why they're not related.
Hymen, meaning in origin, hymen refers to a
membrane, specifically the vaginal membrane, or the Greek god of marriage.
The term comes from the Greek word hymen associated with the Greek god of marriage
and weddings. The root of the word is traced back to proto-Indo-European
syomen, meaning to sew together or join her.
I think Hillman would object and say,
we've fallen under the 19th century British
pie trance, right, P-I-E.
Heima means blood in
Greek etymology, the Greek word hyma comes from the passive present
perfect of Etho, meaning to burn or to
be on fire. This is really important. I think
Hillman would tell us amazing things about
this, because whenever he speaks about burning
he's usually talking about
substances found around the orifices
of initiates and or medusae
or medicine women.
Med literally comes from this.
Related concepts, the connection between fire and
blood might be metaphorical relating to the color of blood and the idea of life
force. Okay, so these words
have different roots. They have different meanings.
There's no overlapping concepts between joining, sewing,
and blood, fire, indicating the words developed independently in terms of meaning and usage.
In conclusion, Heima and Heima are not
related because they stem from entirely different P-I-E roots,
have different meanings and evolved in different contexts within the Greek language.
Their similarity in sound is purely coincidental. This does not reflect
any linguistic or etymological connection. Now this is my
friend
Nate, my new friend,
and I don't know, it looks to me like he actually composed that
this long text that he sent me regarding this.
Which I am deeply appreciative of because unlike
an ideologue or an idiot, I want to be corrected
when I get things wrong. I want to see better.
And so in this video
I will announce the mistake that I made, which was
a natural mistake. I spoke briefly
in my video yesterday of such
linguistic mandagrens, which
word usually is a neologism referring to
misheard lyrics.
Most famously
in the song,
as if this weren't sophisticatedly related
to the topics at hand,
but it sounds like
there's a lyric in there
that's really hard to understand
