It was natural for him to be frightened because he lives mostly in a very rational way of mind.
And at the time I didn't entirely understand why this was happening.
But what I'm trying to say is that the part of him that could travel across those bridges to the sky, bridges to origin, had awakened.
Good evening.
I reassured him and the feeling quickly passed, which it was clear was what he wanted because he was very frightened by this.
Now, some people could rationally explain this and I'm one of them.
And they could say that what happened with my father was that my gentle speaking of the different layers of the water naturally or accidentally drew him into trance.
And so, in a sense, he was hypnotized.
Again, I won't say it's false, but it's too small a portion of the truth.
The more than human aspect of us is trapped in a prison of familiar thoughts, assumptions, presumptions, suppositions, assertions, declarations, identities, catalogs of names, numbers, qualities.
And when that feature inside us is suddenly unlocked, it can be frightened to taste the liberty that naturally emerges to accessible experience.
I don't really care whether my father was in a trance or not.
I'm grateful for the experience we had together and I trust that it was very deep and profound, which is exactly the kind of experience we're mostly hoping for.
The light on the water and the different layers or domains opened up a door inside him which had always been there, but was usually closed or inaccessible.
It's strange because insight resembles at least my common experience of conscious insight when I see something new for the first time, a new way of seeing a new perspective that gives me understanding and awareness and potentials for new forms of liberty.
It returns degrees of freedom to my ordinarily pretty mundane, you know, think, thunk, plop, blip consciousness.
When I have that insight, my whole body lights up and I'm a little bit of an addict.
I really prefer that. I almost always will prefer to seek insight with a companion or a group of people together.
Though I can play the ordinary human game with them and if they're, you know, uncomfortable with that, I can go along.
But they are teaching me while I'm with them even when they're doing their ordinary, you know, habitual talking and relation.
Among men, a lot of what gets talked about is opinion.
I don't know how it is among women because I've never been a woman among women.
And men certainly change dramatically if there are women in earshot or nearby, almost all of them.
And they don't have to be straight to change.
The presence of women changes things just as the presence of men changes things, even though we are trained not to speak in such simple binaries these days.
Nonetheless, it's still true.
Just again, a smaller part of a broader truth that insight would grant us access to.
But when I look down into the water from above, it's so astonishing because I'm looking down and I'm seeing the sky.
On the surface of the water, I'm seeing the sky's image.
I'm seeing the trees above me, the birds above me.
I'm still reminded of the resemblance between that experience and insight.
Because it is as if suddenly there is like a living light in my mind and I can see into a layer I had only glimpsed before or something I always knew but could never articulate.
Something I knew deeply in the core of my being but couldn't put into words.
And usually with the insight comes the way of saying it.
Like you get two letters at the same time, right? The insight and the translation into human language.
At least I do often. Not always.
Sometimes I have the insight and I have to make a parable or a metaphor or an analogy in order for it to become part of my capacity for speaking.
Other languages are also so amazing. Their music is each one so unique.
And basically the speaking thing is structured music, right? That's what it is.
If you could hear the people who I just passed as they were coming home and they were speaking in Spanish, you could hear the music.
And the music conveys so much more that the text alone cannot convey.
Even poetry rarely approaches song unless of course it is sung.
I like to think that we've had together for me this evening that we've traveled onto that light bridge
that the parts of us that can travel beyond our bodies, the aspects of our being that are familiar
for which it is natural for them to travel across the bridges of infinity into origin and insight and wonder
and with luck the opportunity to embody it as wisdom.
I like to think we've been swimming in the oldest ocean there is.
The one the waters are a physical analogy of or a physical example, exemplar of.
There's no planet as precious or beautiful as this one.
The living beings here, I adore them unconditionally and without reserve.
We are so lucky to have a world like this.
We are so blessed where the light shines on the water and behind eyes made of that water we gaze back in wonder, in awe, in hope, in dreaming, in love, in memory.
In beauty.
Thank you for joining me. I look forward to learning together again very soon.
May your dreams be lit by that original light and may your life paths be beautiful.
