Hello everybody. Welcome. I'm grateful to all of you who take some time to chase insight,
awareness, understanding. A beautiful way of mind, a beautiful way of heart, a beautiful
way of body and life path. As close as our own memories, the transcendental light inside
us, brighter than the sun, older than the stars, beautiful beyond imagining, but difficult
sometimes to remember. In our daily lives there's so many distractions and fears and concerns,
representations, hopes, dreams, opportunities, failures, mistakes, errors. And over the time we
exist throughout our life path, most of us become pretty clogged up with all of that ephemera.
And the light we brought to our human birth may become eclipsed.
Sometimes we all feel stuck or trapped or confused, injured alone, sick, lost.
And it can be hard to find good companions to help us when, for some reason, we say things go south,
as if south were somehow intrinsically bad. Maybe that's just a linguistic metaphor for
being lost. And often getting lost is really beautiful. I love the sense of wonder that
I have when I can't tell where I am. Where my compass, my inner compass is misdirecting
me somehow. There are certain kinds of land on which this happens more frequently to me.
Though I have a pretty good inner compass generally. The kind with which we navigate through space,
let's write that one. Of course we have another kind of compass, many kinds in fact, many
different kinds. But there's one compass that is oriented towards something like sincere authentic
relation. True relation with ourselves, each other, the living world, the human world, which is really
the most problematic layer for most of us. But some of us seem to have that dialed. Pathfinding
is really what we're doing. And sometimes by pathfinding we mean way making, making ways. Sometimes
we are not following a well trodden path. We're seeking what we could call a higher level. If
high is good, or a lower level, if low gives us insight. But for us visual humans the metaphor
of up equals good. It's pretty entrenched in part because insight, understanding, awareness,
these naturally come to us if we go up in elevation. There's a white crane flying over me as I say this.
And I acknowledge that he can see, or she can see, they can see. All that is invisible to me,
from just a little ways above my present vantage. It can be hard to trust our path when we're trapped
in the, or mired in the daily human necessities of money and work and health and families and our
machines. What I was thinking about when I first began speaking this evening was light. But not the
light with which our eyes are familiar. An invisible light, the inner sun that lights, for
example, our hopes and dreams, our actual dreaming, and our life paths, our birth, our death. And what
is that light? Well, it's not a what. It is endless living ways. It is being, it is origin. It is family.
But not necessarily merely our human family. The they make light for us and with us. We remember
together. We recognize each other. If things are going well. And I was also thinking about insight. A friend
of mine asked in her questing, when she had the conversation of many ancient intelligences with her, she
asked, what's the difference between insight and wisdom? And one of the things she was shown was that insight is
in consciousness. And I'm paraphrasing. But wisdom is embodied, it's enacted. It's the consummation of insight with our
actual lives and experience. A mating, a communion. I'm not concerned with whether her answer is correct. Because
truth has myriad forms. And the form familiar to our rational mind is but the fingernail on the hand of a body, which is
itself the hand of another body. Truth is really the reflection of what I will simply refer to as origin. And one could
think of it as heaven. Though I think that's a bit confusing, because it's value laden. And one could think of it as true
memory. And one could think of it as communion. The remembered, the deeply adored and remembered relations with the
universe, time space, the place beyond time space, the before of material existence. And most of the truth that I deeply
trust doesn't fit in language. We can make language around it. I can. Sometimes I do. But its nature is transcendent to
concepts, transcendent towards models, ideas, naturally infinitely transcendent. So I respect that. And some people could
complain. Well, if it's not rational truth, you can just make up anything you like. And if we're going to do that, I'll make up my
own absurd things. Okay, I get the idea. But the limits of rationality are severe and harsh and unforgiving and part like and
piecemeal, mechanical, and even the logics, which are beautiful in their way. They have no intrinsic validity. Their validity is only
present when human minds employ them. And the logics will never encompass the minds that gave them birth.
Personally, I have a bit of a problem. Maybe I have a more than a bit of one. I can reach for and usually find insight
if I merely begin to glance in that direction in my consciousness. The door is open. And I will see amazing features of awareness,
consciousness, cognition, organisms, biology, time, space, light, time, minds, beings. But I'm for all my capacities for insight.
I have great difficulty embodying it. And often to embody it, we need some form of a path. I have long studied Daichi, because it's a physical
wisdom path. It's something I do with my body. And this evening, before I embarked on my walk, I fought for a moment about a couple of
different options for activity. And a couple of them involved relating pretty closely with machines for a while. And I just decided, no, not today. I'm going to go out in the world and see the sky and the trees and animals, the water, the birds. Even though I'm in a city.
So sometimes I can make a better choice, but many times I don't. Lots of times I don't. So I find it challenging to embody the wisdom I can see, especially by myself.
So much of our modern experience can become very isolated and isolating, filled with representations of relationships that are mostly not there, the internet and social media and so on.
So, you know, I struggle. And often I'm by myself. And when I'm by myself, that feeling of, you know, what am I doing here? A kind of lostness.
And I lose my way. And I become afraid. And I worry, or I'm anxious, or I'm just confused.
In my recordings, most of you are getting the very best of me that I can bring. But trust that I struggle with myself and my habits and my fears and my confusions, my losses, my troubles. I struggle.
The world is mean. The human world is particularly mean. But it's not merely mean. And it doesn't merely have qualities by itself. The actual world responds to our quests if we're bold enough to initiate them.
And this is why we have half-ridiculous ideas like the secret manifesting and this kind of thing. And I say half-ridiculous because we are in our souls capable of something that resembles dreaming our way into future opportunities, potentials, possibilities.
I just don't think that it's as simple as some of the cults that surround this proposed. Or, not only do I not think it's so simple, I think that many of the things we are trained to pursue in life
are either not healthy for us, or they lead to dead roads. Not all of them, and not all of them for everybody, but the constant pursuit of wealth or power might be the right path for a few of us.
But the wealth and the power is often comprised of concentrated suffering of those without enough to eat and the living places and the living creatures, which are the extensions of our own bodies and minds.
I guess a few thousand years ago, humans realized, some groups of them, that if you just defected entirely from relation with living places and beings, you could burn them down and stack up gold in boxes.
Perhaps the most unfortunate turn in our entire history, and one that will very likely put the torch to us in short order.
When I first began walking and I was thinking of this transcendental light, I had been listening to a story told by a man who had died, or at least he'd had what we call a near-death experience.
A long one.
And he spoke of beings and the places and the situations he was shown while he was in a coma.
And it wasn't unfamiliar to me, and each person's story of this kind of situation is necessarily unique, though most of the stories share important features.
Then later, I was at the water, and I was looking down into the water, and that's when I started thinking about light.
In many ways, there's no more amazing thing than water.
I remember one time asking a close friend's seven-year-old son, you know, if you could have a wish granted, what might you wish for?
He didn't pause for a moment. He said, I would wish for water, because water will keep you alive, and all the other things you could wish for won't matter if you don't have water.
And I thought, wow, this is a child who has actual wisdom.
He knows better than to wish for exotic, you know, things.
There is an ice cream truck nearby, and it's playing the theme from this sting, that Robert Redford movie.
His people came from Africa, and I remember another time when a young African woman was bringing me some groceries, and we were talking, and I noticed that her pupils were very dilated.
They were so big that she almost couldn't see her irises.
And I remarked respectfully on this, and said, your pupils are really beautiful, but they're dilated, they're huge.
And she says, yes, all my friends tell me this.
And I asked her, where do your ancestors come from?
And she told me the name of a place in Africa.
And I said, you know, I can't tell for sure if my guess here is right, but it's possible that for many generations of your ancestors, the daytime sun was so bright that the natural state of their pupils would be highly constricted.
And perhaps here in America, where the sun is generally far less intense and the light is less intense, your eyes naturally relax and try to draw in more light.
And she found that fascinating and was very pleased, which, you know, pleased me as well. We're all happy together.
So I was thinking about light and particularly the kinds of light that you see reflected in living forms, in human eyes.
And let's face it, the eyes reflect because they're wet.
They're almost like little bulbs of water, and they work because they're water.
Now, of course, the eyes are complex, biomolecular organs.
They're not just water, but they use water to see.
And when I'm thinking of this light,
I'm thinking of the sunlight reflected off spider webs or dragonfly wings or fish and water.
And I'm thinking of that incredible lucidity when the light is shining within our hearts, our minds, our vision.
Sometimes when we see brilliantly conceived paintings, it is as if they are lit from within.
Now, of course, in total darkness, you probably won't see anything there.
So it's the way they play with the light and our eyes and our minds.
A living world is mostly water, and liquid water in time space must be one of the most astonishing, precious, amazing features you can possibly come across.
Because on worlds with liquid water, you will almost certainly have complex, anciently conserved biologies.
And I've spent hours, long, happy hours, watching nothing more, really, than light, playing on the surface of the water.
And I certainly don't think like a physicist or a mechanist when I'm watching this, though I'm capable of doing so.
I think like a dreamer.
It's almost as if I begin dreaming when I see the light playing on the water in the ripples and so on, in the waves.
At the western ocean, in the evening when the sun is setting, the whole ocean is coruscating with light.
Little wavelets of shining, silvery, sometimes golden light.
And as the sunset proceeds, the tinkling lights of the water, they may continue, but what forms is an incredibly astonishing thing.
What forms, as the sun is setting, is a bridge of light that I must imagine our ancestors thought there is a way to cross this and go to where the sun lives, to go to the sun's house.
It's teepee, maybe.
A driver just passed me and met my eyes, and the gaze was deep and human and gentle and ancient.
It's light between the oceans of our eyes.
We are not scripted to think that the eyes touch what they see.
We are trained to believe that the reflected light comes into us and touches our eyes.
That latter thing isn't untrue, but it's the merest portion of what actually is going on when we look at anything, but particularly when we look at other living beings and other humans.
Many of the ancients believed that rays came forth from our eyes like beams and touched all that we gaze upon.
And that a gentle touch was powerful and a violent touch was powerful.
And what we speak of here isn't merely our seeing.
What we speak of is the spirit with which and for which we may remember to see.
And biologists will say, many of them who are essentially mechanists, reductionists,
oh there is no such thing as the spirit of a gaze.
You're just making that weird stuff up again, absurd makeup stuff.
Okay, there's an array of perspectives from which what they're saying is reasonably true-ish.
But again, rationality dishes up, but the tiniest slice of our accessible humanity experience
and the vast terrain of us, which is always more, always more than nearly human.
Most of us is not human by a long shot.
Some people talk about aliens in the sky, but all of life on Earth is space life.
These are modes of time space in intimate relational symphonies together.
And most of us belongs to the sky, not the Earth, not the human form.
We belong to the sky beyond the sky.
We belong to the profound skies of origin.
And what those are is transcendental again to language, but we can still point at it with words as I'm trying to do now.
When I watch the light playing on the water, particularly the concentric ripples and how they meet at the surface
and transform into little patterns of rainbows,
it's mesmerizing and it's healing, but it's also powerfully reminding me of something and it's not something rational.
It's reminding me of the nature of awareness and being and how it plays among the forms.
It plays between the forms in that place half outside and half within us.
It's as if there's a mind of infinite intelligence in the light and when it marries the water and they dance together,
impossible beauty arises in my sensing, but it's not one of the five senses I'm sensing there.
Not by a long shot and it's not merely their summation.
And I would say again, it's a form of memory. It's like a living form of memory, that light on the water.
There's a pool I like to gaze into in a garden and it's sort of shielded.
It was designed as a moon viewing pool, which apparently was a Japanese tradition.
Though the gardens are closed at night, so you're going to have a fairly difficult time using it for what it was made for.
But it's not impossible. There are ways to use it for what it was made for.
And that pool has been my teacher. It has taught me many things.
But it does not teach me verbal things.
Did I go the wrong way here?
I think I made a mistake in my route. We'll see. Maybe not.
What it teaches me, it gives me the seeds of certain kinds of insight, but they're not recognizable in their raw form.
They just look like impossible intelligent beauty.
Later, and sometimes rather quickly, they germinate.
And I'll learn things I can actually say from watching the light on the water.
I once took my father to the pool and I was showing him the astonishing features that the pool naturally embodies.
I showed him that you can see the light playing on the surface of the water.
You can see the rainbows of the light playing there in the ripples that insects or things falling into the water make, water striders.
The pool usually doesn't have fish, though it used to have koi.
There's a cricket. And that's the living light in sound form.
So you can see the surface and you can see things that are floating on the surface, leaves and detritus and the water striders and such.
But you can also switch your focus a little bit and you will see the sky.
So by looking down, you are able to see up.
This is very uncommon.
But the pool is such a good mirror that you can watch the reflections shatter and recompose and distort and transform.
Mostly reflections of trees, but also of clouds and birds.
You will see birds flying past you, underneath you.
Of course, the birds are technically above you.
And then you can see the space between the surface and the bottom.
And you can see what dwells in there.
Water boatmen and beetles and other little insects and perhaps tiny fish sometimes and things that are floating.
In the in-between of the surface and the bottom by changing again your focus.
And you can change the focus once more and see the things that are on the bottom.
So there are all these, I don't really want to call them layers, though they can be seen that way.
There are dimensions.
The water has different dimensions when you look down into it.
And by changing how you're looking, they become apparent or hidden.
When you look into the water in the between of the surface and the bottom, you don't really see the reflections on the surface.
Someone might say that what you're doing is adjusting the depth of field of your vision.
And they wouldn't be wrong, but they're also incompletely right.
Because each time you shift your vision, you have a different kind of mind.
It's almost like you can see the different layers of your own consciousness.
Somehow made clear to us, illuminated by the light and the water and the features of its dancing.
You know, there must be times when, instead of a golden road at the western ocean, at dusk, there's a silver road to the moon.
And most rational people would think, oh, that's not a real road.
You can't walk across the water.
And they're probably correct in general that your body can't walk across the water.
But you have more than one body, perhaps more than six.
You have bodies for which that light is a bridge, in the same way that the light in the little pool is a bridge.
You know, when I took my father to the pool and I showed him very softly the different ways of looking at the water, a very surprising event took place.
And I was unaware of it.
As we walked away from the pool a little later and sat on a bench facing some trees,
my father became very suddenly quite concerned.
He was frightened.
And he said, I am becoming the tree.
I can feel the tree is me.
And I remember which tree this is.
And he was frightened because he had not had an experience like this before.
And I calmed him down and said, you're okay, we're safe.
We're fine.
And he said, no, no, we have to go.
I'm dying into the tree.
And at that moment a squirrel climbed up his leg and sat on his shoulder and he said, see, even the squirrel knows, I am becoming the tree.
We have to leave.
