more than merely living processes that produce living beings naturally as a side effect of their
nature and activity. And if we call them gods, we pick up all the value laden problems of that word,
but essentially they are gods.
In the sense that they are not like individual organisms, individual or rather the relationship
is something more like
apple tree, semicolon apple, and then sun, for example, or sun earth in parentheses,
sun earth moon, etc., semicolon organisms. So we understand that the apple tree produces apples,
not a problem for us. It doesn't seem clear to humans that time space and the sun
produce organisms. They personate into beings.
And so our lexicons are missing many higher order reference that would lend participatory meaning
to the subcategories, which we are one of, right? We humans are one of these categories in
the lexical mass of English.
Stop for a moment and consider the idea that knowledge, as we experience it, is fundamentally
false because there's something so much better, more profound, alive, and that unifies the ways
of knowing every time it moves, so that a reference in this system would have features
that are musical, mechanical, atomic, quantum, mathematical, linguistic, participatory,
imagistic, geometric. They wouldn't be able to make a token in the higher order
communication of intelligence that applied to only one way of knowing the way that most of our
tokens do. And so this presents a strange opportunity. There are certain forms of generalization
that immediately produce insight. So generalization is catastrophic when used in a clumsy fashion
to take the worst common denominator of some phenomenon or the best common denominator
or the functional common denominator. That's all useful, right, in various ways, but specifically
it's clumsy when we do it clumsily, when we forget that our purpose is informing our selection of
criteria, so on. But there are generalizations that are filled with insight, like the generalization
of looking at the structure of the hand, noticing that the working members are useless without the
place they come together, the palm, the thinking member, which I'll call the thumb, is useless
without the palm and the other members and the body and so on. But the hand structure generalizes to
the body in the sense that, like the hand, the body can be understood to have four working members
each with three segments. And like the hand, the body has a unifying body, the torso. And like the
hand, we have a thinking member with two major segments, the head. So perhaps we are the hand
of something, and if so, where is the wrist? Well, the wrist is what connects us to origin,
and it's not physical for very important reasons. It would have more mass than the universe if it
were physical. So you can see there's a general, there's a generalization here that leads to insight
about form. Some people would say, oh, the hand is a fractal, but that concept is incomplete
in ways that are important to amend. In nature, the orders of structure in a fractal have meaningful
differentiations rather than merely structural differentiations.
So that if we say hand, semicolon, body, we can see that across the wrist, there are eyes.
There's a nose, there's a mouth, there's the skin surface, there's all kinds of senses
that the hand by itself, we would never guess they existed from looking at the hand.
So upscale in the not a fractal of the human body, you find properties that are radically
inconceivable if we had only a hand to look at. And it's probably similar with the next order of
being from the body to origin. So hand, colon, body, colon, origin, this relationship.
And what I'm proposing is that in direct relation with origin, we have naturally emergent
value systems for truth in being rather than truth in representational systems.
Logical systems, rational systems, mechanical systems, mathematical systems, linguistic systems.
And so it is a different mode of truth. And the mode that we're familiar with largely is
facetious. It's fallacious. It is true within the construct we developed
around it that makes it true structurally or functionally or so on.
So what does truth in being look like? And what is the intelligence I speak of?
The intelligence beyond human intelligence that ours is a strange derivative of, which is plagued
by the problems inherent in advanced representational cognition.
Well, truth in being
is similar to having a personal, deep, active, reliable relationship with a non-human intelligence,
one or more. And often this means God for humans. And this is the word that we use down here to
refer to that. But what I'd like you to understand is there are a plethora of intelligences and
orders of intelligence in time space. When we look and at the pinnacle, the source of those
intelligences, it's the thing that we made this word God to refer to, but the actual
referent doesn't have much in common with our derivations because it's not abstract.
And even if one is not particularly religious, one might say, I have no reason to believe in a
God that I cannot directly know and experience or prove the existence of. And by the way,
that's the way knowledge works, rational knowledge works like that. It excludes everything
hilariously in a cartoonish act of sublime idiocy. It excludes all that which hasn't been proven
or isn't provable, meaning that we want to test things. Forgetting, of course, that testing
is not the same thing as relating, right? In testing, we're going to take an academic
position outside the relationship, try to exclude our own influence and so on on the situation
and get go for reproducibility. And that's a filter of a very peculiar kind. It's a useful
filter. We wouldn't want to throw it away, but it's false to the nature of being.
Being isn't clinical that way. It's not abstract. And I would argue that our minds were born for
relations with vast, what Philip K. Dick would call, Vallas, a vast, active, living, intelligent
system. And notice that he put living in there, right? To distinguish between that and machines,
specifically. So I think our minds were born for relation with this and we're starving and dying
inside because we live in the time where accessing the transports to that relation within ourselves
is extremely difficult and fraught with peril.
So there's an epic history glowing behind my topic. It's the history of the development
of a human mind over eons, over hundreds of thousands of years.
And the place to which we've come in the modern moment, which is
plagued with
knowledge forms that are either extremely clumsy, openly deceptive,
contagiously pathological, and otherwise undesirable. And there's very little of the other thing.
But when we naturally feel concern for another being,
not in mere thought, but in our hearts, when we naturally feel concern over the plight or
situation of a being in trouble, and act in whatever way we can to be of help,
then we are remembering origin. That is an experience of the memory of the kind of truth
that is in relation, not thinking. We may also have thoughts about this,
but the fundamental situation is relational. We feel it before we think it. We think about it in hindsight.
The terrain here is very rich and deep, but I do have a sort of a plan here,
even though I'm wandering around it a little bit haphazardly.
If we think of the network of human minds as an environment,
I'll refer to that as the human cognizium. And we understand that in that environment,
there are physical and non-physical transports between minds.
And the combination of the minds and the transports is an environment in which a certain
organism-like process arises that I call thrips. And I've spoken of this many times in previous
videos, so if you want a deeper read on this, you can look for these words, right?
Now, the human cognizium is connected to all the cognizia in time space,
and particularly locally, it's connected to all the cognizia on earth.
The ashtray cognizium, the ladybug cognizium, the bee cognizium, the cats, the dogs, the fish,
the ocean, the coral, these are all one network. So when we say the human cognizium, we're taking
a slice out of that network to look at.
And thrips are ideas, models of identity, function, value, process, utility,
nature, and so on, qualities, all these things.
Logic is a family of thrips. Rationality is a family of thrips. Political systems,
religions, these are all thrips. All of the commercial processes and products are thrips.
These are processes that capture human mind's thought and behavior
in order to translate that into propagation, contagiousness, right? The thrips are competitive
in the mimula, and they want to dominate the transports of the mimula in this model.
And reproduce, and they fight against each other to some degree, but they can also synergize.
And not all of the thrips are bad. If a thrips is just an idea, there are certainly better ideas
than the ones we have at present. And yet, the fundamental nature of thrips is anti-life.
And if you're confused about how that could be true, you can just look at the,
we're going to make a generalization here. The behavior of the human species is fundamentally
omnicidal. It attacks everything. And one of the primary vectors of that attack is machinery
in this model. Now again, if all knowledge is wrong, this knowledge is wrong too,
but it might be less wrong. And I'm proposing that the knowledge that we rely on and believe to be
veritable is actually the wrong form. It's a bad form of knowledge. And again, this has complex
histories, but we as humans transmit this knowledge and the prevalent thrips to our children.
And they do not know this. In fact, nobody's thinking this way. So there's no
pushback from within the human cognizium. Or there's very little. Enlightenment traditions
and certain philosophical traditions have various kinds of awareness of these matters.
Because they've looked very deeply into the nature of being, being human, having a human mind,
and so on. And so some of the philosophical and enlightenment traditions can clearly see
that something similar to what I'm proposing is at play and that it's very dangerous,
fundamentally dangerous. Now looming in the background of this conversation
is the possibility of direct contact with the beings or meta beings, the transcendental beings
that our minds were born with. The contact that we lost that would light the compass of being
in a way so ecstatic and absolutely true that what we think of as knowledge would just drop
away as dross, kind of gross structure, unnecessary gross structure. And we would be able to navigate
in awareness, relation, consciousness, and thought in a trustworthy way that would produce
endless prodigy in the mind. Of course we humans are weak, given powerful intelligence,
you know, it's obvious to see why the Tree of Life, which might have been the contact point
for humans and the sky beings, so to speak, or the beings that dwell in the nature of time space,
had to be put off limits, had to be proscribed. Because once we have the dead form of knowledge,
we will simply build machines, and we'll build machines that build machines.
Once we are in the thrall of the dead form of knowledge, we are dangerous to the nature of
time space itself, because we can depart from that nature in a very particular way that makes
more dead structure. It's similar to the concept of cancer in the body.
In a sense, when God said, let us guard the Tree of Life from the humans,
God may have been saying something like, they will become cancer, they will eat everything for
dead purposes, what are dead purposes machines. Now, there's a particular thrisp that I was
concerned with at the beginning of my talk, though I've wandered far afield, and that's okay, not a
problem. And it's a thrisp that has plagued us, each of us in all kinds of ways throughout our
life. It's the idea of a normal person. It's the idea of normalcy. Now, what are the criteria
of this idea? And from whence do they arise? What do we get the criteria for normalcy?
It's a complex knot of a question. However, normalcy turns out for most humans to be dumbed
down, obedient to structured fictions, subjugated to structured fictions,
and self-subjugation to these systems on purpose. We want, if we're normalizing something,
well, now this word has ridiculous connotations in the current milieu, because we have a meme
around the word that says things like normalize indigenous rights.
In other words, make that part of the dominant structure.
That's not the way I'm using the word, but it's important to take a moment to acknowledge
this process, this thrisp network in modern human cognition.
But generally, as children, we are subjected to normalization protocols. And the great sin
of being human is to depart from the normalization protocols. And you can see that most of the
ideological movements, at least at the surface layers of human societies, are normalization
protocols. They're obedience protocols. They're domination protocols. They subjugate us.
You'll get a job. You'll wear clothes. You'll make money. You'll get a house. You'll get a car.
You'll obey the laws. You'll pay your taxes. You will probably die an unlived life.
But the reason that I'm concerned with this is that we also have in the modern milieu
a relatively new term, the term neurodivergent. And I prefer the term unusually minded.
Almost all of my friends are unusually minded. Most of them are not classically religious.
And a lot of them aren't particularly political. But they are in the world in a way that is
certainly, if we were evaluating it, would be considered abnormal. And some of them would be
diagnosed with various disorders. Weird idea that there could be a disorder. What does that mean?
Probably what it means is something like desynchronization and disharmony. But disharmony with
what? The superficial layers of society are blatantly, viciously insane. And pathological
and contagious and so on. So the fact that people have minds that don't fit in that
is not only natural and to be expected. It's crucial.
Many of the beings that we think of as heroic were simply beings who were otherly minded.
And they saw the problems with normalization and so on. But here's the actual problem.
No one isn't neurodivergent. We have the whole fiction backwards, and that's not surprising
given the purposes for which it's been deployed and which we continue to do these things and
deploy them culturally and sociologically. We have these ideas of what is normal.
So for example, in China, it's crucial to be a communist.
And in our country, it's natural to be a capitalist, for example. Now of course, no communist is
merely a communist. No capitalist is merely a capitalist. These are one-valued category terms
that are extremely deceptive because they don't really describe anything but their own structure.
They're not describing the people. They're describing a thrisp, right? This is the thing.
Essentially, these words point to cohorts infected with specific thrifts.
And we're born without them. We're born free of thrifts. We pick them up in
piecemeal fashion from language and culture and relation and society and commerce and so on.
But we're born without any, I would argue. And so it turns out that when you look carefully,
at each person, you find more uniqueness than you do normalcy. If there's even a standard for
normalcy that makes sense, right? Because the standard of obedient to social values,
mores, behaviors, the quote, accepted behaviors, unquote, what does that even say? It essentially
says slave. I've been enslaved. I'm voluntarily enslaved to normalcy. I wear the costume of
the natives on purpose all day every day. I rarely take it off. And even when I take it off, it's
still mostly on. And there's a place for that kind of behavior, but its dominance in our culture is
vicious. But we actually have our incredibly unique instances of humanity as persons and groups and
cohorts that are certainly abnormal by their very nature. We were born abnormal. We weren't born
infected with thrips, right? We shed our pants. We put the gun in our mouth. We, you know, whatever
it is we did as children to explore the universe, it's not normal. And a lot of that behavior gets
trained out of us purposefully and with punishment and reward over time. And that's cruel.
But if we were to actually realize the astonishing uniqueness of each human person
and recognize it, then normalcy would be seen as the disease. And what we call neurodivergence
would be seen as the context. That would be the context itself. And I, you know, when this,
when I started to realize the suffering, the vast waves of suffering that the societal impetus
toward normalization in all the ages of the city builders at least, but even before them have visited
upon human lives and hearts and families, it's a crushing and painful awareness.
You know, I used to think that in my own family, because of the stories I heard,
as you travel backward up the generational tree, people are more and more insane.
And of course, in the beginning, I just had a kind of a simple idea of what insanity was, right?
