When I was young, I had a very simple idea.
And of course, sanity means cleanliness. And of course, cleanliness for organisms, mostly
when taken to anything other than the ordinary extreme means death, it means killing.
Cleanliness means not alive. The car is very clean. The dirt is dirty.
Organisms are unclean by nature.
So, it's been raining.
And I'm walking on the sidewalk in the darkness.
And unfortunately, I've accidentally crushed a couple of snails
where I couldn't see well, because there's too much water in the context for the snails,
mainly in the grasses and so on.
And so they are all traveling. And I adore them. I love them. I believe in them. I would trade
all the machines on earth for a single snail without hesitation.
The organisms here comprise the living link to the tree of life in the Bible, in my view.
And it's not a religious perspective. It's an experiential one.
This is my experience of what organisms are. It's not something I learned in a book or through
thinking. We moderns have simply forgotten this. It's cleverly hidden away by our primary
relationship with knowledge and category and lexical tags, names like snail.
Very few people will have the connotation for snail
of highly specialized link to the living library in the universe.
They will not have that connotation. They might think of them as a mollusk,
each plant's cute or undesirable.
Most of the organisms have the connotation
of little or no value compared to a human, which is bizarre since those organisms are our own
extended bodies. They are us. We are them. We are together here.
So in a conversation a couple of weeks ago, it suddenly became apparent to me,
see I think what happened was I was speaking with my son and he'd been watching a show called
Love on the Spectrum about autistic people dating and how deeply he related with their
experiences and their peculiar honesty in many cases, but also with some of the ways
they were deceived by their thinking.
And you know, autism, we call it a spectrum because there's no good single target.
What we're doing is we are gathering together
maps of features, qualities, common behaviors, likenesses in some cohort
and then producing a general term, autism, right? We're generalizing over the cohort there.
And thus we might be inclined to think we know what we're talking about because we have a word
for it. And this is another of the deepest problems in human cognition. We actually don't
know what anything is. So the fact that we have a word for something does not mean we know what
that is. It just means we have a tag for the pattern that it lights up in consciousness or in the
visual field or in a category tree, right? And so on. That's not knowledge. You see why this is dead?
The understanding that the snail represents a transport, not a transport, it's a being.
By relating with the snail as a being in an unusual way,
we, it naturally leads upscale to other cognizia. This is the thing. But we don't have this idea
in English. Very few people think anything like this. Some of the ancient people's spiritual
traditions preserve this, something resembling this, yeah, this idea. And this too is a thrisp.
So in childhood, what happens is we reassemble piecemeal from skeletal remains, knowledge
of previous generations. We learn their languages, their category trees, the connotation webs that
go with those category trees, their behaviors, what is expected of us, quote unquote, expected by who?
Well, not by a human. It's expected by other normalized humans, yes. But
is expected of us, the word expected points to an inspector
and an inspector, a surveyor, right? There's some kind of surveyor. And now we get into the problem
of the nature of identity in human consciousness. And that nature
is directly related to what I will refer to as authorization schemas.
Who expects us to be what, when, where, how?
Certainly the expectations in the shower alone in the morning
are still there, but they're different from the expectations in the supermarket or at my job at
the bank. And you can see that the supermarket is a normalization schema. So is the bank.
So are our political systems, our social systems, our religious systems. But none of the humans are
born normal. We're all uniquely neurodivergent and it's always been this way.
And so we suffer each of us uniquely in childhood, the jeers and taunts and punishments
that are meant to grind our uniqueness down to something so trivial, clumsy and tedious
that it's like a form of living death, especially for those of us who are differently minded in
a powerful way that isn't easily incapacitated thus.
And so I would argue that what we undergo in childhood is a series of circumcisions
of the relational organ that is our minds. And eventually it's so chopped up that it only connects
with ideas in some of us. And there are all kinds of problems that emerge. What I was getting at
when I talked about autism as being a continuum is that each of us is autistic. Are we formally
autistic? No. But most of the disorders in the DSM, we are a grab bag of degrees of these disorders.
If we take the whole sum of the DSM as a single thing, and this is a complex
postulate, but if we take the sum, we're really looking at the spectrum of what it means to be
human. Which person can we find that has no disorder? Where is the completely normal person?
By the way, there's a paradox here, because the most normal person in the cohort
turns out to be staggeringly unique, and uniqueness and normalcy don't go together.
The most normal person is very unique in that they stand out as the pinnacle of the concept.
But we've suffered terribly in our own lives and historically in our gene lines and in the history
of humans on earth. We've suffered this constant intrusion of relatively vicious normalization.
We need merely think back to conflicts on the playground in childhood and what took place
there, and how often what was going on was some kind of group bullying of a single member or
a small group of members who seemed different or weren't normal. And why should that invite punishment?
You can see here the function of thrips in a small group of human cognitives.
Bullying another group. There's the idea that you are other, you're being otherized,
and the other should be attacked. The other is a target, a righteous target for assault.
And even in the Bible, this is clear. Strangely, we have foundationally conflicting imperatives
in the Bible. On the one hand, we have love and communion and the recovery of our relationship
with origin. And on the other hand, we have catastrophic admonitions to basically kill
everything that moves and hate them and destroy them and tear them apart and so on.
So it's a very strange thing. It slices the universe into good and evil, which were apparently
the forms of knowledge or important ideas related to the kind of knowledge that was acquired,
quote, at the tree of knowledge, unquote. But any kind of bipolar value thinking like that
will tear the mind apart because essentially it comes down to
the bias will be toward evil and finding evil everywhere. And so soon everything is evil.
The whole universe is just a mass big mistake of evil mess.
Right. So I was thinking about this normalization problem and the history of it in a deep way.
And all of my friends, without exception almost, there are some who can thrive in a situation
like this, even though it's hideous and confusing and perilous. But most people at least over time
will succumb to injuries they've taken from normalization and end up as addicts or criminals
or slaves or, you know, very difficult, painful, horrible life paths that quickly become locked in
and very difficult to escape. But effectively, the goal is to enslave everybody. And whose
goal is it? Well, it's not the goal of a person. It's the goal of
well established ramified processes in the extended human cognizium. And these processes
act like gods, but their results is certainly much more demonic in the sense of being cruel,
negative, undesirable, painful, unnecessary, egregious, and so on.
It's easy to see that not just at present, but throughout history, we've had the,
we've faced an array of moral problems and ethical problems and faced them very poorly,
I must say. The difference between what the humans in general, and again, this is a weird
generalization, say, and what they do is extreme. Everyone proposes that they are the ally of the
good, remember the tree problem. But the good often involves obliterating, certainly involves
obliterating the environment, wholesale where possible, killing each other, torturing each
other, enslaving each other. And the situation with the thrips in the cognizium rewards those
who most efficiently enact their propagation agendas. So you see that the social systems are
wealth filters and quality of life filters that steal life from all living beings on earth,
and particularly from impoverished and the lower rungs of the wealth ladder.
We steal life from them. It's vampiric, right? It propagates value up the ladder toward individuals
and very small groups, just as if there were still kings.
By the way, the idea of a king was generally understood to be, even until relatively recently,
that this being is the local transport to the intelligences in the sky.
That's what a king was understood to be, generally speaking. This is why in part there are pyramids
in Egypt as the burial chambers for royalty. Those were probably thought of as a way to
transport the king back to its birthplace in the origin world and thus ensure immortality.
Now it's weird that immortality is one of the goals and you can see how this is represented
represented in human social culture and media and so on. Our stars are called stars.
When something bad happens to them, it's a disaster, which is literally
dis-star. That aster word means star. We're embedded in our language as the memory of the sky beings.
So normalization turns out to be a code word for slavery and we each rebel against this uniquely
and some of us managed to preserve faculties that were in seed form in us in childhood.
We were gravid. We had thousands of eggs of myriad impossible faculties to heal with a touch,
telepathy, to translocate instantly, all of these kinds of things that we think of as supernatural,
but they are not supernatural. They are beyond slavery. They're metaslavic in this sense.
They are the faculties that must be killed off, circumcised, excised, inhibited, destroyed,
or stolen from us, represented and sold back to us at ever-increasing cost.
Right? We don't get the faculties, we get their representations. Instead of telepathy, you can text.
Instead of love and meaningful love-making, there's pornography.
Instead of intelligence, we have bizarre systems of highly sophisticated lexical structure
or the actually fascinating language of mathematics, the languages of mathematics and geometry,
particularly. Profoundly useful, but without knowing their origin, we will not use them well,
without contact with their origin. We will not understand really what they are for,
and they are certainly not for building machines.
So throughout the history of mankind, we've suffered this ongoing tragedy of enslavement
that raises the flag of normalcy.
And along with being dead inside, normalcy is incredibly boring. It is extremely task-oriented,
and it invents tasks to keep itself busy because it's absent from the heartlands of being within us.
An emotion. When I mentioned the snails earlier,
I've had a few adventures with some snails tonight, and some of them were very touching,
and so I feel real pain at having crushed a couple of them in my walk.
And it's not my intent to justify that, I'm just going to say that hurts, that feels painful
to my heart. I love those beings, I do not wish to harm them.
And generally, I'm the kind of person that is very careful about how I walk in the world
and where my foot falls. I'm not a Jane, but I have a lot in common with their
perspective on the preciousness of living beings.
You know, I was thinking about all of the families and marriages
that suffered because they had what was perceived as an abnormal member.
Now, certainly there are some kinds of abnormalcy that we celebrate and think of as excellence.
And these are situations in which someone learns to preserve and embody
faculties and skillfulness and develop it in the ways that we slaves
don't ordinarily have the opportunity to pursue.
And usually the expression of this is in some captured domain of representation.
The consider the young girl who is working on an athletic bar and being, you know,
studying to compete in the Olympics and so on.
Her actual athleticism,
this is the worst embodiment we could imagine for it, display, right? Just straight up display
of skill for the masses on television, in a competition. Her actual athleticism
deserves a better context of expression than that and must have a better context of expression.
And that, that you can see here the problem of what happens when we represent
virtues, yeah? The representation of virtues is not virtuous.
And true virtue means something like true within the context of all beings
in all of time. True in relation to origin.
True in what I refer to as the my arc, which is a word I use to describe the living library of
minds in all of time. Excellence is dead once it's captured into representations.
Because excellence exists fundamentally in being and relation, not in captured expressions
put on television for the Super Bowl. Now I won't say that that's not a mode of excellence that's
being enacted there, but it's being enacted for purposes that are trivial and invented
when we enacted in relation with and for each other in the sake of all beings in all of time.
That's excellence and that comes to life and life comes from life in that way.
There's a grand quest afoot here on earth and it's invisible to nearly everyone,
but all of us sense it and what happens is the representations capture that sense
and misdirect us. You see there's a bad gravity here, a disaster.
But for thousands of years and millions, hundreds of millions of human lifetimes we've suffered
in our lives and families and social situations because there was an expectation that people
would be normal or would at least act normally. But in truth what normal actually means outside
the slave making traditions is unique. To be unique is to be normal. To be unusual is to be normal
because it is in human nature and form and biology and genetics that each human, if we could
analyze their uniqueness versus their normalcy, we would see that the uniqueness is infinite.
There are infinite domains of it and the normalcy is abstract. It's clinical. That's a homo sapien,
male, female, transgendered, whatever we have.
You can see in a way that identity politics, a generalization that I am highly biased against,
of course it's also a continuum so it depends on which elements of or in actions of identity
politics we may be looking at or which proposed theories or so on. But in general this looks
like a pathologically toxic thrisp to me and it's raising the flag of something virtuous but
the problem at hand won't be solved in language in this way. It also seems highly litigious and
fact-tionated. So I'm quite concerned about this
particular way of thinking and speaking as I only, you know, poorly understand it,
admitted all of that. Nonetheless, we can see here a movement that formed itself around
gender but is actually about uniqueness and a resistance to certain features of slave making
language. Males are expected to do thus and such. Females are expected to do thus and such. Again,
we have the expectation protocols and the question of expected by what, expected by who,
expected in general, expected by society, expected by the state of California or the
city of San Francisco or the neighborhood of the inner sunset or, you know, and so one of the
questions of truth is like, if there's expectations, what about the expectations of
the original beings? The sky, our true nature, unencumbered by representational cognition
and all of its artifacts. What's expected there? And probably we'll find there's not anything like
an expectation. There's something more like principles and possibilities, opportunities.
And this is our nature as humans that normalization crushes.
