Hello, everybody. Welcome. It's been quite some time since I've made a recording.
Many complex issues have arisen. And although I've been learning and thinking, wondering,
I haven't really felt ready to speak for some time. But that's not why I'm here today. I'm
out on a night walk and it's been raining here. And that's been wonderful and very soothing,
nurturing, and healing. I'm extremely fond of the rain. I love water. I like being in it,
around it. Living water is probably one of the most profound and precious situations in all of
time space. If you pointed your finger into the sky and followed it 100 light years,
it'd be very unlikely to encounter anything like we have here. Of course, that's because you're
drawing a straight line, right? If we turn that line into a disc, it's more likely that we might
encounter liquid water. And if we turn it into a sphere, it's much more likely. This is an important
idea. Most of our thinking is linear and point-like. But the nature of that which is whatever we want
to call it, we often use the word reality, but this word is value laden.
So often we will take a linear measurement of something like, for example, people,
what people are, what they're doing, how they're thinking. And usually when we take a linear
measurement, we draw a line from where we are to whatever fulfills our purpose in thinking about
people. So if we're trying to think about what's wrong with people in general, which is a pretty
weird idea since we have no experience of people in general. We can generalize, but we have no
experience of this. There are no general situations. Generalization is a probabilistic
mode of thought. But if we're trying to find out what people are doing wrong, then we will see
only what people are doing wrong. We will take the worst common denominator from the graph
and usually forget the rest of the graph. Or if we're trying to see what's beautiful
about people, something similar may occur. Though in the latter example,
we might be being more intelligent.
Our language makes clumsy use of generalizations. And I think one of the primary problems there
is that all situations are specific. We don't actually have the capacity to pull back
and see what a generalist would see because we cannot actually contact general situations.
We can't participate in them directly. Obviously we indirectly participate. The lottery is one
example of this, where a pool is formed. There's some very modest degree of participation in that
pool, the purchase of a ticket or more. Probabilities are at play, we imagine, and somebody wins.
Or many people win if it's that kind of lottery. Some selection of the cohort gets money back.
Now, my point, however, was that in thinking, if we think in a point-like way, we will think
that things have a single property. They're one-valued.
And we can see that that's not true in our experience. Money, for example, is a generalization
of value. Or actually, fundamentally, what is value? Value is relation. Value is relationships.
So it's a representation of relational integrity that falsifies relational integrity.
Most representations, or many of them, falsify that which they're representing.
For the sake of convenience and commodification, making money, or power, or
how shall I put this? Relationships that are based on hierarchy and trading of power or value
rather than mutual excellence, mutual benefit, so on.
Many of our primary class words in our category lexicon, words like food,
dream, friend, enemy, machine, computing, these words are generalizations over an entire class
of complexly distinguishable phenomenon and situations.
Surely, we can see that there's a continuum of food from will kill you outright to
ecstatically delicious and healthy. And so when we speak of food that gets disposed of,
we're using a generalized term for an entire class of reference.
Similarly with dream, there are many different kinds of dreams. Similarly with friend, many kinds of friends.
A part of the reason that I'm talking about generalization, well, actually,
it was really from the geometric perspective of if you draw a line straight up in the sky,
you might go a hundred thousand light years and not find liquid water or something resembling a
stable organismal environment, though you also might. But if you make that a disk,
now the whole scene has changed, you have a plane in time space that you're examining,
and if you make that a sphere, radically increased the area explored or evaluated, so to speak.
So one of the reasons I'm interested in this generalization problem, and it really is a problem
for us, most of our generalizations are clumsy and they make us dumber when we use them.
Often because we use them, it's common for people to use them.
Critically, we want to say something about the Republicans or the Democrats or the Muslims
or the Christians or, you know, the Buddhists or the Hindus or China or, you see, all of these
are catastrophic generalizations that capture very little of what they encompass and they exclude
everything that doesn't match our purpose. So if we want to say there's something bad about China,
and we want to point out one bad thing, let's say there are 12,000 vessel fishing fleet,
then we confuse the finding of a single property with something that arises
from the whole, from the referent China, and so we may think that, and this is very clumsy thinking,
or rather it's mostly just delusion, we may have the delusion that China matches the quality in the
one thing we chose to look at and in the way that we interpreted it. So this is part of the weird
problem of thinking in categories and language. It's also a fundamental problem with knowledge
itself, and here's where things get very interesting. It turns out that what we refer to as knowledge
is the dead remains the sort of fossilized record of previously experienced insights, learning,
awareness, understanding, success at tasks, and so on. And so knowledge fundamentally in this way
is dead except at the very leading edge where insight is occurring. And certain forms of insight
have a quality that knowledge cannot convey, it cannot contain. It's a living quality.
A good example is that the other day during a conversation
with a friend in Portugal, whose name is Luca, very amazing mind by the way,
something flew into the backyard where I was wandering, you know, circling around while we
were talking, and it was a large for its class creature. I realized fairly quickly that it
couldn't be a bird that was almost the size of a hummingbird. And then of course I walked down the
tree of identity from something to a flying creature, to not a bird, to insect, to beetle.
And it was a fascinating creature almost the size of a peach pit, bright, iridescent turquoise,
even in the limited sunlight of a cloudy day. And it flew around the backyard for like four
minutes and I've never seen anything like it in my life in person. And I'm fascinated with insects
and so on. So I was paying close attention. And my sense of wonder and awe and even fear
and fascination and curiosity, all of these things came to life within me in direct relation
with a living creature that was new to me, even though I have tokens for the class we put it in.
Now one thing that's important to understand is that the classes of English are relatively clinical
in the sense that they are tree like structures related to form and how to put this, I'm struggling
a little bit here. They are clinical in that they are the results of study rather than relation.
So study is when you stand back and look at a phenomenon abstractly. And so our classes
and categories and all of their sub-members, all of the members they contain, have arisen mostly
from an abstract clinical perspective, a perspective of study, which groups things by form and function
as we have chosen to interpret them is the caveat there.
Whereas the classes and categories of ancient peoples, certainly 10, 15,000 years ago,
come primarily from a relation and may have nothing to do with form. For example,
a white cockatoo and the sun can be in the same class word, but a black cockatoo has no relationship
with that. This is an actual example probably from Ernst Casaray, his work. So the ancient
categories had relational vectors or hooks that we could connect with in a way that participates
rather than in a way that stands outside the phenomenon, evaluating it abstractly, clinically,
or functionally. And so it seems to me that our lexicons and our category library
is badly broken, primarily due to abstraction. Now I saw the living beetle and it was alive,
and I was alive and we were together and there was wonder and mutual awareness and so on.
And that's like insight. And I was very curious about this creature and wanted to learn more about
it, but I couldn't get a clear solid glimpse of it while it was in flight. This is the crucial thing.
It is alive, it is flying, and it didn't land for me to record its form with a photograph.
Some days later, I was surprised to come across the carcass of one of these creatures.
It may be in this season many insects die.
Often their lifespan is four to seven months for certain insects, possibly like this creature,
and certainly the praying mantis. In this moon cycle, the praying mantises are pregnant.
So mating has already occurred, and soon they will lay egg cases called uthika,
which are foamy and will harden. They look a little bit like footballs on the undersides
of branches or fence posts, generally in a shaded protected area.
Now, encountering the living beetle was like insight. It's participated relation in time
space. Encountering the dead beetle is like knowledge. Now I have the form, I have the structure,
but there's no life in it. I can determine its species and phylum and genera and so on
in the Linnaean biological catalog.
But that doesn't actually give me any information about the organism other than structural.
Now a biologist would have more information about the organism,
but most of that information would also be clinical. It would not be participated.
When is it born? What does it eat? What are its enemies? Does it prey on other creatures?
How does it mate? When does it mate? Where does it lay eggs? These kinds of functional things.
Now what I want to propose to you is that our form of knowledge is dead inside.
It's not actually knowledge. It's lexical reference primarily.
Now you could argue against this and say, we know enough about the workings of cells
to influence them, to promote them, to kill them off under certain conditions.
Cancer cells for example, or perhaps we know enough about the mechanisms of viruses to interfere
with their function in the body, but there's always a cost when we're doing anything to the body.
And generally there's a cost to any action because there are always repercussions
and only a very small portion of those can be predicted or understood beforehand.
So in a way we come back to the primary problem in human cognition
that is introduced in the peculiar and far too brief story of Genesis at the tree of knowledge.
Apparently there were two important trees, though they could have been the same tree.
Hmm. That's a more complex conjecture. We'll pretend that there are two trees, the tree of
knowledge and the tree of life. Purportedly God speaks to Adam. I think this is prior to the
emergence of Eve and says, of all the trees in the garden you may freely eat, but do not eat of
the tree of knowledge for that is death. Then later, after a woman is born from a man's rib,
and in case this seems like an impossible miracle, if we merely imagine that the earth is female,
then we will understand that one of the orbital orders around the sun congealed, we think,
into a planet named earth on which billions of life forms and minds and souls and so on would
emerge. So this isn't to say that we should think of Adam as the sun explicitly, but rather
metaphorically there is a meaningful way to get a being that we might associate with motherhood
from the rib of a star that we might associate with fatherhood. Now, of course, the sun has
feminine aspects, specifically if we think of the word gravity. This comes from the
probably Latin or Greek term, gravity, which means literally filled with eggs.
So these associations in gender are ancient and profound. It's not that one of them has
authoritative knowledge, but rather they form, you know, if we're looking linearly or in a
point-like fashion, we'll try to find the one that is right, but there is no one that is right
in that sense. And this is another common problem in human cognition. We think we know what's correct,
and obviously in a limited scope of concern, it is correct that turning the faucet handle
clockwise will open the flow. But we've sort of generalized mechanical correctness to ideological
correctness so that we think because there are things that in a limited scope are mechanically
correct, there must be ideas that are formally correct. The problem is that their correctness
always depends on axioms assumptions. My point, however, was that the knowledge game of associating
qualities with gender is important to the nature of our intelligence,
as well as being mechanically true in large selections of organismal behavior, phenomenon,
form, so on. So you can see, though, that the structured knowledge is phony. It's not relational.
By the way, that word phony comes from the strange modulations of people's voices
when we began to use telephones that we heard for the first time, where
some of the vocal music was either not captured and transmitted, or it was distorted.
And we still have this problem in our time. Our phones still distort our voices. And, for example,
it can be difficult to hear certain continental sounds in an electronic communication
that would be immediately clear if we were face to face.
So back to the Tree of Knowledge. Eve arose and went to the tree, and there we are told she met a serpent,
which we usually visualize as a snake. And it's not that it's not a snake,
but it's certainly not merely a snake, and is probably something we moderns don't have a word for.
Most likely, it's a divine being, a non-ordinary being. And the being says to Eve, well,
you know, you won't actually die, and the fruit is good to eat, and will make you see.
It will give insight, is the promise. And Eve eats of the fruit of knowledge,
and we are told later that it is the knowledge of good and evil. And at that point, but not before,
an angel is placed at the Tree of Life, which spins a sword in every direction
to guard it so that the humans don't get access to it.
Apparently before eating of the Tree of Knowledge, hello.
Apparently before eating of the Tree of Knowledge, the Tree of Life was accessible and not a problem.
But after we have knowledge, it's a problem. The humans have to be sort of evicted in some way.
And we might imagine this is an interior process. My point, however, is that knowledge is false.
And if knowledge is false, what then is true? Even the knowledge about the
faucet handle is false. It's false for many reasons. It's incomplete. It's catastrophically
incomplete in terms of what is going on, right? It's a very narrow perspective on
utilization, form, and function. And of course, we build faucet handles to do a specific thing.
So we think of them primarily in that light.
We also build knowledge to do specific things.
But all knowledge is false because we have been, in our interior, we are largely evicted
from the domain of insight. And this is a long and complex story that probably involves non-human
intelligences, with which our species had symbiotic relations earlier in the development
of our bodies and minds. And those non-ordinary, somehow we were evicted from those relationships
over time. And then we formed religions and such. And without those relationships,
our inner compass that points toward truth in being as our relation with origin,
the beginning of all things, the home of all beings, the true nature of all beings,
time, space, plants, and animals, and so on. We have been evicted from this into
a realm of abstractions, structured fictions, utilization narratives, value narratives,
and so on. And this is a form of death. If we would taste of the thing that knowledge
is a dead derivative of directly, we would never be interested in knowledge as we know it again.
Because the transcendental modes that collapse into categorical knowledge in humans
are alive, profound. They are beings. They are beings of some kind. Or, you know,
they are that from which the idea of a being descends. They are hyperstasis of the idea of being.
And similarly being is a hypostasis, a lesser stasis of whatever we're pointing at with this
concern. It's very difficult for humans to understand, but it's blatantly obvious
that there are,
we don't see this as the problem. I'm missing, there's a missing word in our lexicon,
and the only words we have that are like this much are gods, or angels, or demons, or devas, or jinn.
But it's clear that the sun generates lives and minds on earth as a side effect
of what it is being. And we could say also what it is doing. Now think about that. That's really
profound. There are, there's a category that we can refer to of processes that are more than merely
a being or an entity. These words don't give us any information, but there are processes
