But in identity politics, I can see
a rebellion against the slave making language implicit in English in general, not just about
gender. Now, gender is an interesting place for that conflict to begin and a dangerous one in our
time. One that I think is likely to go badly sideways in all kinds of ways over coming time.
But the intent to pursue the establishment of rather the intent to disrupt the establishment of
normalization is apparent in identity politics. And I find that fascinating.
Even if I disagree pretty deeply with the mode's behaviors and it just looks like a toxic
thrisp to me, it's got all the hallmarks of something that will breed extremism,
either internally or in response to it or both and more.
So it suddenly became apparent to me that in our families, imagine, for example,
just a random example here, how many women have married men that were slightly or significantly
autistic? And not only autistic, these men were often engineers, mathematicians, sometimes artists.
And these are what?
These are some of the social myths we have about autism. They're not purely true.
And yet, it turns out that there's some crossover between the capacity to think in a disembodied
fashion and certain features of human scientific, technological, and philosophical development.
So that you might get periscuitophrenic minds capable of doing things that ordinary minds rarely
approach. Some examples are Georg Cantor, who gave us the the theories of orders of infinity.
Kurt Gödel, who gave us the incompleteness theorems, proving that no system, there will always be
truths within a system that cannot be proved from within that system. A higher order system is
necessary in an attempt to derive those proofs. And all systems must be thus.
People like Einstein, Dirac, Mandelbrot, I'm naming a lot of mathematicians here and mostly males.
Penrose,
Reiman, with his mathematics of manifolds.
John Nash, who was actually both schizophrenic and a mathematical prodigy.
It's most obvious in technological endeavors.
And surely, you know, a surgeon has to be able to disconnect from extreme physical empathy
to do the work that they do on human beings.
So there are lots of places in our society where unusually-minded people
could produce prodigy and seemingly heroic findings and results and systems and so on.
And it strikes me that not only are we all near a divergent, but there seems to be some
interplay of epigenetics here in the sense that there's an aspect of how genes work that
senses not only the present situation, but does some sort of probabilistic analysis of futures
and begins adaptations in the present for situations that will arise in the future.
If this is so, all of technology is changing the human genome and we would naturally see an uptick
in the kinds of diagnoses that dovetail with technological jobs.
Autism being one of them.
We might even call this era the rise of autistic contenders, right? People like Elon Musk, for
example. So these topics are fascinating. If we really wanted to know what was coming in the future,
we might examine someday, perhaps, the genomes of the children
for evidence of prediction, right, of futures. Now, of course, that would create a feedback
loop if we did that, but we're making a feedback loop anyway just by spawning technologies
and representational cultures. Obviously, the children are undergoing
certain kinds of genetic filtering. One example, simple one, is although there's always been
dating services, there have only been dating apps for a fairly short period of time. Let's call it
30 years, and their prevalence today is dramatically changing the genome of humans.
It's literally creating a filter point within the cohort. Now, obviously, not all humans use
dating apps, but younger generations are much more prone to be doing so.
And those apps are literally imposing a selective filter on what couples make babies.
There were some recent articles where it was made clear that
the same kind of thrisp-like behavior that happens commercially in our cultures,
or you get wealth concentrating in the less than 1%, is happening in dating apps so that
people who are attractive have many opportunities, people who have nothing particularly
striking about them have none, or only really bad opportunities. In other words,
they're being predated upon. And this is a common feature of the app context,
circa 2022. So you can see there's a selective process at work that will literally change the
human genome by selecting who gets to mate and who doesn't. Again, there's a normalization protocol
at work there. And no one can compete against the technology unless they were endowed that way
at birth with, for example, great physical beauty or significant wealth or skill sets, so on.
It just occurred to me that so many families have lived with one or more members
that are powerfully neurodivergent, though all the members are neurodivergent.
And because of the expectation of normal behavior and relation, they suffered horribly.
Every family has this trauma hidden in it. We seem to be very concerned about certain kinds of
traumas at this point in time, and I think that's a dangerous thrisp network that has some value
in certain features of it as well. But this is a trauma that hasn't been surfaced.
We're not speaking about this. And really, it's the problem that underlies identity politics.
It's a resistance of normalization. We are not normal. We're not going to be normalized.
If anyone's going to cut on our genitalia, it will be us.
This kind of thing.
There's a word for trying the attempt to recapture societal expectations or behaviors.
And again, weirdly, to normalize them. You can see this where specific ethnicities
may recapture an epithet that was used to insult them, and they turn it into a feature of communion
or fellowship, sisterhood, brotherhood, personhood.
Interesting that hood is on the end of all of these words. How does that arise?
What does that hood word mean? It's funny, because we think of it as language
associated with clothing. But let's find out what it actually is.
So it looks like the etymology originally comes from protection. Now, think about a hood.
It's a protection of the upper body. It also relates to hat, helmet, and so on.
But imagine that the original hood is the sky, and the intelligences in the sky,
in time space, the upper worlds that protect us down here. Certainly, we are protected by the sun.
We are protected by the moon. There are physical instances of this protection
in our actual existence.
See that personhood? But I think in English,
the connotation is that of a hat that identifies who is with us and who is with them.
The cohort membership is the real connotation there, rather than a hat.
And this is why many English terms have incredible depth that we're unaware of if we're not exposed
constantly to etymology, and particularly to the metaphoric and analogic
origins of these words, rather than their extremely abstract and rather clinical current
usage frames. So in all of our families, we're each unusually minded, and some
of the family members will find a way to, quote, fit into modern culture, society, commerce, and so
on. But others will not, or they will fit only very poorly, and all of those people will suffer
terrible poverty, not just in terms of financial well-being, but social opportunities and
developmental opportunities, which are really the important opportunities they lead to all the other
ones. They generalize. So each of us is fundamentally abnormal. The nature of humans
is to not be normal. But the pressures that we face, which are not merely ideological,
but physical, and the punishments we undergo for attempting to preserve our human uniqueness and
to develop the faculties we came to human birth with together and alone. That quest
is very poorly supported and everywhere captured and represented, right? With sports, commerce,
the internet, social media, so on. Now, obviously not all representations are explicitly toxic.
The problem is that if the representation that isn't toxic arises in a milieu that is,
then the non-toxic representations are feeding the toxic processes that capture our excellence
and our prodigy and deploy it for purposes of commerce, war, science, medicine, technology, etc.
In a sense, this sounds like a very intellectual discussion, but it's my heart,
at the core of it, that longs for reunion with my fellow beings and the intelligences in time
space, the divine beings, the transcendental beings, that we are intimately expressions of
in our humanity. It's not like these are separate, distant things. These are beings without whom we
would not exist, nor could we have minds. So in a way, it's the gift of our relation
with origin that's being compromised and represented and turned into addictions and
models and explanations and ideologies and so on. And that's tragic,
but it's not the only thing going on. And we can learn together to recover the faculties we brought
to our human birth and to directly experience the metaposition of knowledge that is insight,
that is alive, that is in relation with the vast active living intelligence system
of the universe and whatever is producing the universe, perhaps as a mere side effect
of its existence. And that is our nature. These are our companions. I say our minds were born
to interact with all of the intelligences on earth, the myriad organismal intelligences here,
and directly, personally, with intelligences that are not embodied in the way that we think of beings
as being. And again, it looks to me like almost all the representational activity of humans
in an attempt to capture and weaponize for the sake of thrips, features of the memory of origin
to mimic it, yes. And this is a fundamental problem in the Cognizium, the mimicry of excellence,
the mimicry of our relationships with nature and origin,
things that mimic features we remember from before we were born, and represent them in
a derivative, highly structured, often abstract, or clinical form.
I don't know if it's possible to reintroduce our species to the intelligences native to time space.
And surely the topics like the possible existence of aliens, I would say the,
basically, in my view, the certain existence of alien species. The question is,
not are there alien species or is there life on other worlds? It seems wildly unlikely to me that
there isn't. But we humans are prone to think in technological metaphors, so we think,
you know, are there beings traveling around in time space in technological vehicles in machines?
And I would argue that advanced intelligences would be well aware of the fact that machines
aren't required. In other words, the substrate itself of time space in the universe
is implicitly intelligent and hyper-connective.
Vast physical distance is an illusion of near neighborhood. The farther away something is,
the nearer it is in 10 other ways. And this is a paradox because we humans,
we're very interested in crossing distances in time and space.
Almost all of our technologies involve this principle to skip space or skip time or skip
participation. Obviously the car, the internet in its way to skip distance.
Even a refrigerator or an oven are ways of transforming time. The refrigerator slows it
down, the oven speeds it up. Which should imply to us that time and relation are important, right?
Time is linked to relation. It's not a linear thing.
What time means for an object differs if it's cold or hot.
How much more so for a being?
So I don't know if it's possible to reintroduce our species to the symbiotic communion
that was natural to us at some point in our ancient history,
in what we might imagine as the time before the tree incident in the story.
And there's an ancient promise of someone bringing this back to us,
reawakening in us all that has been killed this way. And this is the promise of a Messiah.
And also in some sense of prophets. But the problem is
when the gods went away, so to speak, when the symbiotic intelligences we were moment to moment
linked with. A more intimate link than a physical one.
Our minds were touching theirs. They did not speak to us. We were sharing minds with them.
When that disappeared, first you got small cohorts who could open the door in the sky.
And then, and some of those survived and some of them were obliterated because they weren't normal.
And they weren't easily enslaved.
And you can see that there's a polarity here between slavery and contact
with non-human intelligence. Those who had that contact were capable of completely
resisting slavery. That's not normal. They were free of knowledge, the burden of knowledge,
and structured behavior, and social norms, and ridiculous ideologies that counterfeited
principles that our bodies and minds arise as exemplars of.
That's the kind of truth I mean when I'm saying if knowledge is false what is true.
It's the memory of origin unoccluded by thinking and language.
One might say this is Abel's or Hevel's memory, the twins born right after the tree incident came
and Abel, Cayenne, and Hevel.
So at first there were some survivors who could open the door in the sky and these were prophets.
But eventually, and it didn't take long, we had people and cohorts mimicking that.
It's very difficult to tell the mimicry from the authentic, right? There are clearly psychics who
can touch your mind in history and there are also psychics who use techniques that have been
evolved by magicians over time to give the appearance of psychic ability and even a very
shocking and impressive appearance, but it is mimicry. So we started to have the problem way back
then mostly in cultures that had settled and were city building, right? This is where mimicry
kind of gets most of its start, this kind of mimicry.
And the thrifts are mimetic, they mimic value, right? They don't deliver value,
they deliver slavery, but they mimic value and this is why they're so contagious in the human
cognisium, all these ideas that mimic value. And certainly there's some kind of compass
that we use in our minds that's value seeking.
Unfortunately, the faculties involved in vigilance, prediction, and dealing with ambiguity
are easily captured by thrifts because they are extremely cost inefficient in terms of
awareness. They're very expensive in terms of awareness. And so in the evolution of human
consciousness and thought, the systems that we've developed are systems to offload that cost.
And it's really easy to offload it into deception.
We are so coddled by our technologies that we don't experience what animals would experience
if they tried to do something like we do, which is death, right? Outside the representational
layers we've established in nature at the outer space of representational cognition,
most of us would quickly die. We would make a catastrophic mistake because we'd be paying
attention to the wrong thing or we'd be distracted by thinking. Animals don't have that luxury.
There's an evolutionary filter that just filters that off. And one of the things that
human technology does is distort that filter in such a way that unintelligent behavior propagates
and can survive. The immeasurable seeming protections offered us by our technological
milieu, home building, roads, hospitals, all these things, computer networks and weapons of war,
and so on, medicine, allopathic medicine, and on and on, allow us to fake our way past the
filter that would ordinarily wipe us out because we're not in touch with being, we're in touch
with representations. And in any natural milieu, that'll get you killed. Unless you have deep
experience of that milieu, which may involve representations, but is largely active sensing,
right? It's active sensing informed by previously forged representations. For example, those are
wolf tracks. A bird has made a kill here. It was a hawk. There are hawks here, right? There's
extensionalism that happens when we notice phenomenon. But to survive in the ocean
or in the wild, you have to depend on active sensing first, which is deeply embodied
and extremely relational. Yes, you can teach abstractions of it, but without the embodiment,
they will function poorly at best.
All of us are capable of active sensing, and we can practice it. And we can practice it together
for reasons that lead to insight rather than just capture derivative abstract representation.
