Even though most of this language I'm using is abstract, you see, once we turn the mind
in a certain direction, we easily find paradox in knowledge. If I say that knowledge is false,
but I am making knowledge here with language. Yes, it is false. It's not the true thing. It's
not us in communion, in wonder and awe and fascination, learning with all of the living
beings here and the intelligences of the sky. No, it is not that yet. But I can point at that
in abstraction. In other words, from within abstraction, I can point beyond it, even using
those tools.
When I'm making these videos, I'm trying to see better with you, though you are not here with me.
It is my hope that we can learn to see better together in new ways and ancient ways that return
to us some of the promise and opportunity implicit in our human incarnation.
And even if we can only make a little bit of progress together, that seems beautiful to me,
and worthy, and virtuous. And virtue is a concern of mine, not because I adopted some
pre-fab moral framework, but because my experience as a human being has clarified in me that there
are faculties that can sense origin and that origin is fundamentally virtuous.
And so, of course, I am concerned when I depart from virtue in any of my behaviors,
though as an ordinary human, many of my behaviors have little or no virtue and may even
work against virtue, the irony of being human, to see the ecstatic beauty of the universe
and its nature, to see into it, but yet to fail to live up to that vision.
And in some way, perhaps my expectations are unrealistic, but I think not.
I know I have some more things to share, but I think I will wrap up for now.
I'm so grateful to all of you who listen and explore together with me
all the ways that we are more than human, and the fundamental wonder of our existence,
and even the very difficult experiences that many of us are having in the time we live in now.
Thank you for joining me. I look forward to learning together again very soon.
