For example, one quest someone might take on is to learn to meaningfully communicate with a tree,
which the vast majority of humans will consider to be both nonsensical and impossible.
Neither of those things are true.
I understand why people with no experience of this kind of thing are inclined to think this way.
I am not demanding that they think any other way.
One of the things about me is that I acknowledge, and I think it is reasonable to do so,
that each person is in the world in a very unique way.
And while they might belong to classifications or groups,
for example, they may have some sort of gender expression, they may be a certain age,
they might live in a certain place, they might be able bodied or not,
so on and so forth, each of us is unique.
Each of us has unique qualities.
So too we have unique opportunities to forge and accomplish quests
that advance the development of aspects of our humanity
and perhaps even that very mysterious aspect I refer to as our soul.
I like quests that start out seeming very unlikely.
That's not the only kind I like, but it's one of my favorite kinds.
And in case it isn't obvious the whole quest and question dichotomy is very interesting
because a question is like a quest I am on, right, a quest I am on.
Or even the eye of questing is in me a light it is turned on, right?
I am seeing with the illumination that my purposes emit and receive back from having been emitted, right?
So a quest can be kind of like a flashlight, right?
You shine it into darkness and information comes back.
I think this is perhaps the most important idea in this video.
That a quest illumines and transforms relationships and identity, possibility, opportunity, necessity,
all of the things that ordinarily we use to navigate in our experience and minds and imaginations and relationships and vocations and so on.
And we can have quests in all the different aspects of our lives and we can have quests that affect
whose effect is mostly in some specific domain or whose effect is very broad, changes everything.
But I am a fan of the genre as the phrase goes.
And I think it can be very useful, playful and profound to imagine whether or not it is quote unquote true.
You see there are many things that aren't intrinsically true or untrue.
Their truth or non-truth depends on our relationship with them and how we are oriented, right?
It is not true or untrue that there is love.
What is true or untrue is that someone loves.
They are in the game in that way, right?
And so truth can be a very deceptive idea because the way we are in the world, the way we are in relationships,
the way we are behaving, what we are looking for, how we are looking, why we are looking,
all of these things affect whether something is true or not.
Now there are trivial truths such as, you know, I am in a garden, I am in what people call a garden
or people call that a tree and that a shoe and this my nose and this my finger.
Those are relatively trivially true.
No one near me has touched me since I began this video.
That's, well, as long as we are talking about people only, well, even then,
no person physically next to me touched me while I made this video that I am aware of at the moment.
It's true.
But when we ask questions about the nature of identity or being or belonging,
now truth becomes very malleable and dependent on all kinds of things that we ordinarily don't consider.
And particularly whether something is good or bad, this is a very, very sophisticated thing.
Even though, again, there are some, you know, we can identify simple aspects of the question, the question.
So I think our lives, we should preserve a big chunk of mystery for the nature of identity and being and origin and result.
But we are almost a living question.
And whether we engage this playfully, creatively with consciousness and reverence
or whether we're just mostly pragmatic about it,
our lives will encompass an array of developmental milestones or not.
Some of my quests remain secret.
They're private to me.
And others I'm happy to share and speak of more or less publicly.
I think there's a profound, what is this?
I think there's a profound relationship inside us between that which we might refer to as public and that which we might refer to as private.
Many aspects of our humanity orbit these two fundamental.
And of course there are gradients. It's not just, you know, two things there.
How private is it?
There are things I might share with close friends. There are things I might share with no one.
There are things I might share with people I work with.
There are things I might share with random people in public on Facebook and so on.
There's this sort of these two concentric circles of degrees of public and private face, what we might call face.
By which I mean persona.
So part of my quest in general is to understand what it means to be human.
Or what it can mean, not just what it means.
Or it's not a given. It's not a given thing, what it means to be human.
Though we can stay mostly within the lines of what we're told it means in a lifetime if we so choose.
Many of us have heroes and heroines who don't do that. They quest.
Some successfully, some lose their lives in the process.
Some are tortured, imprisoned, die alone.
And yet we revere the terrain revealed by the way their life illuminated the world.
Illuminated our humanity.
And I think that's truly beautiful and perhaps somehow imperative.
And in the modern mishmash of superculture and technology images and noise and commercial products of what was once creative activity.
Perhaps it's never been more imperative that we take on and embody and
quests that illuminate our humanity for each other, with each other, together.
For the sake of all beings, for the sake of the living world.
For the sake of the essence of our humanity.
I suspect I will touch upon this topic again and I have probably touched on it in previous videos.
But if you so choose, I hope you will join me in a great and as yet unstructured adventure.
The adventure of discovering and returning to common knowledge and experience.
The nature of the essence of our being, our humanity, our consciousness, our intelligence, our creativity.
For all the quests that are born of these urges fascinate me and I find them beautiful.
And in so much as we walk together with this purpose, I trust we will become a light that shines not only here and now, but in all of human history and with luck deep into the future.
Thank you for joining me and I welcome your questions, comments, ideas and sharing.
Bye bye for now.
