3x2
64x2
umbre
A relative thing, a mysterious thing. Though most of us know something of what is meant when we use this word or we hear this word.
It's a very, very mysterious process, array of processes, nested array of processes.
Certainly when I enter the garden, my experience of time is radically altered from the experience that I will have out in the city in all the traffic and noise and movement primarily of humans and their pets and their machines and their businesses.
What I will experience here, though I can detect the nearby activity of many machines, because I can hear it, what I will experience in here is an entirely different kind of time.
Certainly our experience of time is relational and relative to something, to our context, to what's going on in our context.
So, out in the city, there are what I might call hundreds or maybe thousands of events per minute and there are tens or hundreds of events per second.
It's a lot of busyness and most of it is meaningless in that it doesn't, I don't relate to it, it doesn't relate with me.
I am aware of it and I have to modulate my behavior to survive in it.
If I step unawares into the street, there's a good chance that I'll be obliterated by a machine.
The tempos and rhythms are set primarily by machines and clocks and businesses.
Whereas in here, they're fundamentally quieter.
And while we might say in the sense of physics or biophysics, there are trillions of events per second, which of course is true, at the micro scale, at the macro scale what would qualify as an event, something that I can detect and relate with, is vastly slower.
Most of the things around me here, if they are moving at all, they are gently swaying in the afternoon breeze and it's beautiful and it's quiet, except for the sounds of water,
since it has rained recently, I can hear some water dripping off of leaves and such and I can hear some bird music.
And occasionally I may encounter a human being here and there are my footfalls, which have a rhythm and there is the sound of the jet.
So that even in the garden, it's quite difficult to escape the constant intrusion of the noise of machines.
This tree is really amazingly beautiful and it's growing.
It's growing right now, but I would have to be capable of transforming the rate at which my visual awareness functions to be able to detect it's growing visually.
Now I'm really fascinated by time.
For our verbal and conceptual minds, time seems linear.
For a non-verbal mind, time is perhaps more like a sphere, with now at the center, or perhaps now at the periphery and everything at the center, depending on how we choose to think of it.
In my long fascination with temporality, I've learned things so staggering, so astonishing that they make the science fiction that I read as a youth seem very conservative.
And I read a lot of science fiction as a young man.
Primarily I read science fiction from the 20s through the 70s and some science fiction written in the 80s, but I would guess the majority of what I read was written in the 50s and 60s and 70s.
People like Asimov and Bradbury and Harlan Ellison who once yelled at me for 15 minutes.
A.E. VanVoe, David Brinn, Philip K. Dick, Samuel Delaney.
Ursula Le Guin and McCaffrey.
A number of people, men and women who use pseudonyms and women often did. Some of my favorite women did.
And those authors seemed to me to be another species of human capable of a form of vision that the people around me did not have.
And indeed they were capable of this kind of vision.
An often dangerous vision.
And in fact I believe Harlan Ellison edited a couple of books called Dangerous Visions in which he asked science fiction authors to give him their most controversial stories.
And those books are quite profound.
Very useful.
And now I have come to a part of the garden.
First of all I can hear distant thunder.
Pretty sure.
Secondly, the music of the birds
is fundamentally influencing.
It's catalyzing the temporality.
And there's quite a bit of it.
From this position, from where I'm standing, it's layered.
And the music differs in different directions.
Oh, there is a kestrel.
Oh, beautiful dive.
Beautiful wing folding dive by the kestrel.
One of my very favorite raptors.
A small raptor who I once, during a difficult conversation with my father, observed atop a telephone pole eating something.
It took me a while, it was like shaking, it would eat something and shake its head.
And it took me a while to figure out what it was doing.
I believe that it had acquired either an entire wasp nest or part of one.
And was consuming larva from this nest while being stung in the face, in and around the face by wasps.
And that to me was very symbolic of the task of the quest for awareness and understanding and companionship and security
and beauty that our human incarnation, our human lives, can become if we so choose.
And I suspect that my long acquaintance with science fiction and fantasy
planted seeds in me that led me to an awareness that I could live a heroic and astonishing adventure.
If not quite equal to those in the stories I'd read.
At least influenced by them and having some of their character.
As it turned out, I should have realized stories aren't bigger than life.
Life is bigger than stories.
And even if we are isolated or in poverty or otherwise seemingly compromised.
Our life is like, can be understood to be like a space time ship.
In which profound adventures may unfold if we seek them.
And if we are bold enough and curious enough and passionate enough and that last, that passion is crucially important.
If we are heartful enough, attentive enough, inquisitive and in love enough, then we shall have adventures that surpass those of which we've read.
However heroic they may seem on the page or in our minds, in our imaginations.
And I have been always interested in this idea of questing.
I associate the idea with stories I've read about knights.
Meaning the peculiar men who took on quests dangerous and bizarre sometimes.
Excuse me. Because this is one of the common places in stories where we hear about this phenomenon.
Though in science fiction and fantasy, particularly in fantasy, questing is very deeply and profoundly diversely represented.
And I wonder if our lives with all their mystery and profundity are whether we are aware of it or not.
An experience of having an incredible adventure for an array of purposes.
Beautiful, noble, profound, deep, invisible, mysterious, sometimes visible.
But for most of us largely hidden most of the time.
I'm fascinated by the results of the quests I've embarked upon in my life.
I have one in my heart at the moment.
I take a secret mission or something that has to be done partly in a dream.
And dreaming seems deeply related to questing.
So too the visionary mind.
We set our goals.
If we set our standards very high in the quests we take on.
Perhaps even if we don't, we will tread a path that hopefully if it lies between madness and prodigy,
primarily comes down either in the middle or on the side of genius.
All of us are familiar with setting a goal and pursuing it.
When we use this language it sounds very pragmatic.
I need to go to the store.
I will gather together my list, my method of payment, so on and so forth.
I will get the things from the store.
I will complete the task.
But there are quests I think invisible to us associated with our life.
Unless we are either very lucky or very curious, we may never become aware of.
I suspect for example that there is something resembling the idea of a soul that is associated with our human incarnation.
For most of us this is a matter of belief, either of belief, opinion or mere nomenclature words.
Yet I have good reason in my own experience and understanding and life path to trust that something resembling a soul
perhaps far more profound than one exists is part of us, is an aspect of our being.
And I also suspect that various kinds of dreaming and there are many kinds are deeply associated with this organ of our being.
And that it influences deeply many things about our humanity, possibly including our appearance, our orientation, our character, our persona, our fears, our loves, our passions, our curiosity.
There is probably no aspect of our humanity that I think is uninfluenced by whatever I may refer to as a soul.
And in some wisdom traditions there are many aspects.
What we have learned about Egyptian spiritual or metaphysical models or frameworks is very sophisticated.
Seems very sophisticated. Just putting some white sage oil, which I love my face.
Smell of it is so beautiful.
And by the way, sense and essences were long associated with soul or spirit.
Spirit being that which can travel invisibly through the atmosphere between beings.
I'm not an expert on the Egyptian model, but there are models that have for example the soul, the body, the name, the shadow, the traveling soul.
The personality.
So we can imagine that a soul might either be very complex and not unlike our body have organs.
Although most of us I think are familiar with and habituated if we think of souls at all to think of it as a single thing.
I suspect it's more complex, but our body itself doesn't really have parts unless you start to cut it open.
We can refer to different elements of the body by name and see them as separate, talk of them as separate.
Or we can see it fundamentally as a unity or we can even see like the world as a unity and our body as an organ in that unity or the universe or all of time space or whatever.
So whether things have parts or not isn't necessarily intrinsic to those things, but rather to our purposes in thinking about or speaking about or modeling or imagining them.
But I do suspect there are different aspects of whatever we might refer to as a soul.
And I think our human birth can be meaningfully understood as a radical adventure, a physical, a radical physical embodied adventure for something that is ordinarily not physical.
And we might have different words for that not physicalness.
We might call it energetic.
Diaphanous.
Transparent.
That's an interesting one.
Transparent.
Perhaps differing from apparent.
Transcendental, metaphysical.
I don't know the best language to speak of these things in.
And so I will stumble now and then as I try to orbit the topic.
But what I hope to reflect on today is that our human birth is a precious opportunity for kinds of development that we have little language for.
And these aspects of development are known to traditions we would categorize as spiritual, or at least within those traditions there is language about them.
There are models of this kind of development.
However confused those models may be or incomplete.
But the fundamental situation is both mysterious in that it is fundamentally mysterious.
It's so mysterious no model or framework will ever properly capture it.
And we should bear, I believe we should bear that in mind.
There are many aspects of things we can speak toward that we actually know nearly nothing about other than we have some name that points at some reference in a conceptual or lexical system.
But we do not know the essence of the things we have named.
We don't know their purpose from the perspective from any perspective that is more true without being perfectly true than those perspectives we've been exposed to because we are like consumers of ideas.
Most of us we rarely form them ourselves.
They are not formed by trustworthy groups.
They come down to us handed down to us in linguistic and conceptual and pragmatic overlays from history and supercultures and nations societies.
And most of these are intrinsically untrustworthy as regards the nature of identity or meaning, possibility, opportunity.
They're untrustworthy because their purposes were skewed.
And some pragmatists, people pragmatically minded would say, well, except for science.
And I understand why they might think that, but they'd still be confused because
although science and its introduction into human ideation is very profound and meaningful and powerful, it's also easily confused.
There are many aspects of our being that science is ill-equipped to do anything with at all.
Many aspects of the nature of nature that science will never come close to.
And some people hope that science and religion will produce some sort of amalgam, right?
That science and religion will at last get married and maybe have a kid.
But it's a weird idea because these two things need to remain distinct for all kinds of important reasons.
Generally speaking, it doesn't mean that I oppose, it doesn't mean that I only oppose such attempts, but most of them I think are ill-informed.
And misapprehend or misframe the nature of these two domains of human curiosity and thought, tradition, history, activity.
I've been a big fan of science my whole life and I still am.
Without science there's all kinds of things we would never have learned.
But some of those learnings have come at terrible cost.
And I think it's a bad idea to torture or injure or trap living things, living beings.
To gain information about the mechanics of their biology, I think that's a very, very dangerous idea.
The world is made of relationships.
Those relationships matter and cannot be disregarded for the sake of learning things.
And yet, science so far has been very consistently willing to, actually the correct way of saying this is that,
certain researchers have been willing to pursue knowledge nearly at any cost, possibly including the cost of exterminating life on Earth,
by giving supercultures technologies, these come from research.
And when the results of research are placed in the hands of supercultures, our science can become very, very deadly.
And the experiment is ongoing. We don't yet know whether the human relationship with science has already pulled the trigger on the extinction of life on Earth or not.
We don't yet know.
It may well be true that the trigger was pulled 15 years ago.
Or 50 years ago.
And we're just waiting for the bullet to hit, you know, to hit home.
And some people will say, well, science is our only hope of rescue from this, and they could also be righted.
The question's mysterious.
But what I want, what I'm trying to highlight is just that,
the apparent heroism of scientific research is often very confusingly founded.
And it's difficult to separate the researcher from the research, from the context, from the effects,
from its transmission to corporations and supercultures, and what they will do with it,
including drug companies and, you know, the military industrial complex, prisons,
and corporations like Facebook and Twitter and Instagram and so on.
So while I've always been fascinated by science in my adult life,
I became quite reticent about the results of scientific endeavor in modern human culture.
And science, of course, isn't a thing.
It's a behavior.
It's a way of asking questions and determining reliable, partial answers.
It's a method.
There is no thing science as a being.
Science doesn't tell us things humans do.
There's a lot of linguistic confusion surrounding this idea.
And the same is true of religion.
And both science and religion have had catastrophically lethal effects
when their produce is distributed into human societies.
And perhaps part of my quest is to understand how this happened.
How did all this happen?
But the thing that I'm actually interested in today
is to just begin to reflect on this idea that
our soul is having an adventure called incarnation.
And we all have, nearly all of us, we all have adventures at night.
This is weird.
This is really strange.
So I'm having a little bit of an adventure right now.
This ground here is strangely lequescent, almost like quicksand.
It's like there's jelly underneath it, but it's just in this one little spot.
