The ground around it isn't like that.
Well, at least, well, no, I guess some of the ground nearby is.
It's probably just mud.
But we all, or nearly all of us, we have adventures that I think
in which our soul is, to some degree, involved at sometimes very deeply,
at sometimes rather shallowly, that we call dreams.
And I'm not the first person to suggest that our incarnation
is a special mode of dreaming,
though it is not merely dreaming.
You see, the world of dreams
can transform almost without what seem to be rules.
And there's a certain kind of continuity to waking experience
for most of us, most of the time.
That is unlike that of dreaming.
We wake up in the same room, usually, that we go to sleep in, for example.
And there's continuity of all kinds of features of our relationships,
financial, social, romantic, interpersonal,
vocational.
Whereas when we go to sleep and dream,
even when we're dreaming in a thread and we're having like
dreams that are very similar night after night
or have a certain theme repeated night after night,
which has been relatively uncommon in my life, but not
entirely uncommon.
The dreaming world
is not consistent in the same kinds of ways that the waking world is.
This doesn't mean it has no consistency.
It does. It has various aspects of consistency.
But I'm led to suspect and my experience supports the suspicion
that our human incarnation is an adventure that our soul is having.
And I would like to suggest that it's a developmental adventure
that our soul is growing or developing or learning
or acquiring sophistication from the adventures and situations
and relationships and behaviors that we enact as human beings, embodied human beings.
In a way, not dissimilar to how we go from fertilized egg
to blastocyst, to embryo, to baby, to infant, to baby, to child, to teen, you know, so on, so forth, right?
Our human physical life is a series of physical developmental adventures
but also of cognitive and emotional and psychological adventures.
So there is a kind of not merely physical aspect to our physical incarnation
unless we think of the psychological and the emotional and the intellectual
as representations of underlying physical phenomenon such as brain activity
and structuring and so on.
And some people do think this way.
Some people believe, for example, that consciousness is just a byproduct of the physical activity of the brain
and it ends there, I doubt it, though I understand something about this view.
So some people think, these are primarily researchers and people who read them
or philosophers, that our experience is just and only the result of physical processes.
And those of us who think...
Now, I don't only think one way, by the way, and I'm not suggesting that any of you do.
I'm capable of thinking of multiple, in multiple models at the same time
and that's probably better than having just one.
It's important that we entertain a variety of ideas
rather than what most of us have been trained to do, many of us have been trained to do
which is to select one and then just believe that one
and sort of reject or fight against all the others.
That is, I think, a very dangerous and unfortunate result of our miseducation.
We should have a number of viable ideas and models and beliefs
because if we make a circle around a topic
and we can perceive it from multiple angles and then even multiple layers of circles
and multiple angles, some below, some above, some to the side, however we want to think about it
then we'll have an intelligent relationship in our cognition and thought and imagination
about the nature of whatever the phenomenon in the center of that circle turns out to be
whatever we put in the center of that circle.
And I would ask that we learn and help each other to learn to do this again
because what most of us have is a flat single model belief system
about very important things like is there a soul or what does it mean to be human
or what is an organism, what is the sun, what is the living world,
is there a metaphysical aspect to things or not.
I think we need to have multiple models to have anything resembling intelligence about questions like this.
And we can include those from science but they should not necessarily dominate
for they are wildly incomplete as all models will tend to be.
Though incompleteness is not the only thing going on either.
I would like us to preserve a big chunk of mystery when we're thinking about
and respect that it's mysterious, when we're thinking about big questions,
what is time, what is light, are there souls, why do we incarnate as humans
or do things incarnate as hummingbirds and trees and stuff.
It seems pretty likely that they do.
There are beings all around me.
They appear to be related to me and relating with me in various ways.
And in fact my survival depends on them.
If the homeostasis provided by the environment fails,
if the temperature rises above about 104 degrees Fahrenheit
where photosynthesis stops happening, we all die.
So it's pretty obvious from one perspective there's one thing going on here.
From another useful perspective there's a bunch of distinct things going on here together.
From another useful perspective it's just me going on here.
But I suspect our souls come to incarnation on a developmental adventure
and I think dreaming is involved in that adventure.
And visioneering our future is involved in that adventure.
And whether we think pragmatically or fantastically imaginatively
it's very clear that prior to engaging in some task
you're probably going to imagine it, right?
You're not just going to have a thought emerge with no imagination
which I think would be impossible because thinking is a form of imagining
that it's time to go to the store, right?
Or I have to complete some task or this task is important and that one isn't.
Or this one's compelling and that one's boring.
All of these involve imagination.
And so this aspect of our consciousness and awareness is often dismissed
as not realistic.
If you didn't have your imagination it would be impossible to form the perspective
that your imagination is not realistic.
You couldn't form any perspective at all.
You could have a visual perspective but not a psycho-emotional one.
So I think we come to earth on an adventure and some of us learn
to really live into that.
To live into a grand, epic, beautiful, impassioned, sometimes ugly and terrible too, right?
Not all of the adventures are good.
And some of the adventures that people make of their lives are horrifying.
It's not all flowers and butterflies and happy-go-lucky things, is it?
Though those of us who have preserved some degree of free will
and are not just addicted and are not just driven or compelled or trapped
but even those of us who are driven and compelled, addicted or trapped
we have an influence on how the adventure will unfold
and we can choose to set a quest line, to set a goal.
So I have a goal, I mean I have a number of them, many of them.
One of my most ambitious is to change the human relationship with knowledge in a fundamental way.
That's really big.
Seems unlikely that I'll accomplish that one in this lifetime.
But nonetheless I chip away at it.
But a more personal, or not more personal, a more...
So I've had all kinds of unusual goals throughout my life.
One of the quests, one of which was to bring something really important back from a dream.
And I think I've accomplished that on a couple of occasions.
Although what I really wanted was to bring something, I wanted to bring something physical back from a dream.
I don't know if I'll ever accomplish that.
But there are targets near that that are more accessible.
I have lots of aspects of questing mind associated with my life.
And even when things are very dark and very difficult
And I feel that I cannot go on, or that surely I will perish.
Or that very bad things will happen to me, or are happening to me.
And I'm frightened and I'm isolated.
Even when I have experiences like this, which are part of many people's lives,
I retain the awareness and the desire
to break free and to continue the quest, no matter how dark.
Hawk just flew by.
And I know that hawk, and I know that hawk from this time of day.
In this place, that hawk is often here.
And if you see an animal doing something peculiar in nature,
particularly if it's feeding or cashing or relating with other animals,
in a specific place at a specific time,
there's a relatively good chance that if you go to somewhere near that place,
at near that time, you will see the animal again.
Humans are also like this.
So if you see a particularly interesting human, you may find them.
Just as someone might find me right here in this garden in the afternoon.
Not too tough to find me here.
That could lead to misadventure.
There are humans that are not friendly to me.
Thankfully, not too many of them and very few to whom I am unfriendly.
But they exist and they too influence my quests.
So I think we come to human incarnation and we have a rare and precious opportunity
to adventure in a way that develops and educates.
Maybe educate is the wrong word.
I wish I had a better one.
But our soul and maybe various elements of our soul,
our persona, our mind, our intellect, our shadow, our hearts,
they are developing and the adventures that we have in life help them to develop.
And when those adventures are beautiful and communal and passionate
and in a way lucky or blessed, we develop really amazingly
and we can forge an entirely new mind.
We can forge a new heart.
We can acquire abilities that were previously impossible to us.
And we seem to, as a people, we seem to celebrate those
whose adventure leads them to some developmental excellence
that is often turned into a commodity and then sort of sold back to society with great fanfare.
But it is not those kinds of adventures that I am particularly concerned with,
though I acknowledge their power and the compelling nature of the spectacle they produce.
No, it is something more humble in terms of its public face,
but more profound in terms of its private face.
It is these kinds of adventures that I am very interested in.
I am interested in adventures that might be invisible to the public,
but inwardly so beautiful and profound and deep and rich,
maybe sacred or holy, that they lift,
they advance the bar of what it can mean to be human and lead a human life.
And sometimes these are adventures that involve rescue.
And of course I am a big fan of heroism.
I think rescue, mutual uplift and rescue is profoundly important and compelling.
During one of my adventures, I assembled the sort of idea of freeing all prisoners,
untrapping all traps, and it is a very poetic idea.
And some will argue with me that it is not pragmatic or possible,
yet I am not the only one to have had this dream.
A world without cages is a world I imagine to be beautiful.
And if I have managed in any way to untrap someone or something,
then I feel that I have accomplished something meaningful.
We interact with the possibility of questing both consciously and unconsciously.
When we repeat habits, we may be either expanding those possibilities or limiting them.
Sometimes both.
And this topic is deeply profound and very complex.
I am not going to cover it in minute detail today.
My goal is merely to introduce the idea that our human birth gives us a variety of peculiar opportunities,
perspectives, faculties and so on, that are incredibly rare if we were to think of all of the possible incarnations we might take on.
As microbes or insects or animals or trees or living places and so on.
As humans we are uniquely endowed with the capacity, partly because we have hands,
maybe largely because we have hands, to have minds and do things that it seems very unlikely other organisms are endowed to do.
Though surely the reverse is also true.
There might be forms of development available to a tree that are entirely unavailable to human beings and surely the opposite is also so.
But when we take on quests, and I am not necessarily recommending that you do so,
though I am asking you to reflect on the possibility, when we consciously take on a quest,
and I like those that are somewhat magical and seemingly in one way impossible.
