Hello, everyone, welcome.
There's an old and natural association between seers, whatever we may mean by this, and wisdom,
whatever we may mean by this.
And in a sense, a seer is anyone who sees what is very difficult or uncommon to see,
but also who sees, perhaps spiritually, which what does this even mean?
It means, perhaps, outside of time, outside of tradition, outside of common supposition,
outside of expectation, beyond meta, meta, and those who see know a simple secret that
is often overlooked.
And it is that beginnings are sacred and should be treated with reverence, and so the first
movement, the first gesture, the first offering in any relationship or communication
should be made with deep awareness of its capacity to fertilize all future branchings
of the relationships and situations that are founded, initiated in a first gesture, as
if time, space, and relation are virginal.
And any first movement
cares the envelope of time, history, and relation.
And this is different for males and females.
The females have the hymen, which comes, I think, from the Greek word hyma, meaning blood.
The virginity of males is not, is mysterious.
It's not merely physical.
And that which breaks the hyma does not necessarily directly fertilize the matrix or the womb,
but it affects its present, historical, and future metaphysical structure in a sense.
It's what we might think of as the web of its energetic aspect, which we might think
of as primordial to its physicality, right?
Not an afterthought, the energetic aspect is not an afterthought.
It's primordial.
It comes before, exists during, and persists after physical transformations, physical emergence,
and so forth.
So in the beginning, this old bird, it's very, very beautiful, he's an old man, he knows.
But he is also, he's very nervous, this old blue jay, who's following me, who I'm feeding
from my hand.
People who are wise and who can see will revere
the encompassing circumstances and the initial movements, actions, choices, speech.
Not merely of a relationship, right?
Not merely those that begin relationships, which are profoundly important, but also those
that begin communications.
So the first time one communicates with another person, or a place, or an animal, or a situation,
a lineage, a history, perhaps even a linguistic.
This is why we have in the beginning of a written communication, the feature that we
refer to as the salutation.
And often in the salutation, and this is so strange because in our modern situation, we're
missing 90% of the crucial content.
And by content, I mean understanding, awareness, memory, and amnesis.
The real knowledge, not the structured remains of what was once alive, not the skeletal remains
of insight, liberation, beauty, magic, musea, potency, not that.
So in our written communications they may begin with a cruelly abbreviated homage, dear,
dear person of the first name.
And of course there are various honoraria that are employed to respect the status of
persons whose social or logistical, or political, sociopolitical status, or academic status,
or medical status, has been raised above that of what we might think of as the common
citizen, or even a slave.
And we should remember that slaves weren't allowed to have, in some places anyway, slaves
weren't allowed to have filial names, I think, if I recall correctly.
But my point here isn't really this.
What I want to highlight is that when we begin to address someone, we are addressing the
entire lineage from which that person arises, or for which that person is the embodied expression
and temporally local to us embodiment of.
And so, unlike our modern habits, we should have presence of awareness of just how profound
this is, and not merely in our first interaction, which connects our lineage and theirs.
The entirety of our history, all of my grandmothers and grandfathers, all of the living places
that were like wombs to us, all of the creatures who gave us food, shelter, comfort, all of
the beings who sacrificed their lives to keep us alive while we drew breath, all of the
insects, all of the plants that we related with, that our lineage was relating with,
and was the living emergent hand of all of these matters, which literally means all of
these mothers.
All of these matters should remain in our heart and the spirit of our action as holy,
and in the sense of belonging to some religious tradition, in the sense of becoming the living
elixir of an amnoesis, unforgettable.
In listening recently to Amman Hillman, who at times rages like a prophet, and at other
times speaks moderately like a scholar, and it's wonderful to see that range, that spectrum,
curve in his thought, concern, expression, he has an awareness of such matters, it seems,
and also perhaps of the strange results of intentionally violating them, and I don't
mean to speak for him, he's quite capable of speaking for himself, but what I will speak
of is the peculiar cross fertilization that I experience and am here expressing that arises
as a result of the exposure to the strange elixir of his thought, his reverence for the
ancient Greek, and even the purple, the purple, his exposition, his orations, act on me, I
don't have to concern myself much with what we might describe as his veracity.
Dan McClellan is excellent at attempting this, whether or not he succeeds is another story,
but as a master of public, the demonstration of public knowledge and public debate, McClellan
is extremely skillful, difficult to doubt at best, but McClellan is overlooking something,
something fundamental, which is the spirit in which endeavors are composed, in which they
are conceived.
And so before I continue today, I want to pay homage to your ancestors, the lineages you
are the living organ of, your mothers, my mothers, our fathers, the beings who supported
and nurtured and sheltered and fed and sustained us, all of them, the living places, the insects,
the plants, the microorganisms, the sky, the gods, the angels, the diamonds, all those
beings who have, the humans have nomenclature to refer to, and those they do not, and in
our time that's probably most of them, because our lexicons are impoverished compared to the
grandeur they might once have known and bodied.
And these first gestures comprise one of the pivots that is very important, not merely
in relation, but in speaking.
And particularly if relations become intimate, to intelligently resist the possibility of
violation, we must negotiate consent.
And there's a catastrophic difference between formal negotiations of consent, which are often
crucial, especially if what are involved are groups of humans or beings, and the informal
but nonetheless successful and or, by successful I mean successful in determining the existence
of and expressions of consent in a relationship.
Now consider two human beings approaching each other, walking on the street.
Now this is a completely bizarre and in a sense very confused and almost wrong in the
sense of like it shouldn't really exist this way, but you have two strangers approaching
each other on the street.
There's a variety of perfunctory glances toward each other or peripherally encompassing the
other.
There's a complex negotiation that leads either to, well it leads to a broad array of forms
of observation and purposes for observation or non-observation, purposes for relation or
non-relation.
The female of the j-pair has come with her mouth full of moths to greet me as if to
signal approval and perhaps consent.
She observes from afar that her mouth is full of moths is symbolically profound.
She is gathering the moths in her mouth as they hatch and or as they mate.
Now the male is near me.
He looks at me turning back and forth with his two eyes.
His left eye sees broadly, his right eye sees specifically.
If he looks at me it is with his right eye.
If he sees for me it is with his left eye.
He sees around me with his left eye.
Above us are raven but there are hawks that live here predators and if you think that
the blue jays are different from us you're right but not in all of the senses that you
may think.
There are beings above us winged beings that travel quickly in time and relation and some
of them are predatory and few of them are helpful but some of them can be.
In the same way these jays have forged a relationship with me, a slow moving land creature compared
to them, one who lives long compared to them, one who is in some senses above their way
of life beyond their way of life.
I connect them with my people and they connect me with their people and who knows perhaps
at death our positions may invert and they will be above me and I will be delicate and
short lived.
I've heard such stories of jay-headed sentinels and escorts near the river Lethe.
And when we come together you know we humans we have this perfunctory and confusing relationship
with consent particularly sexually between men and women.
I heard a wonderful vignette between Eric Weinstein and Anna Kvakian I probably mispronouncing
her name.
Kvakian?
I can't quite recall.
One of the hosts of Red Scare, the Red Scare podcast and they have a beautiful little colloquy
surrounding this topic of consent in the age of political correctness even if they are
both largely what we might refer to perhaps mistakenly as cisgendered.
And thus why do I say perhaps mistakenly because the most common use of this particular
nomenclature is to divest people of the right to speak at all on matters related to gender
identity and or the relationship between the genders.
Most often this is a term of denigration and almost an insult.
Not always, commonly.
I just saw a creature that I don't know what it was, it was fast and small but too large
to be an ordinary insect.
I wonder if I have managed somehow accidentally to comprise a context in which actual magic
may begin to emerge in the ordinary, in the otherwise ordinary spacious living time of
this garden.
This is a possible thing.
And it needn't involve strange rights.
It needn't involve explicit erotic behavior.
It needn't involve violence or violation.
It needn't involve taboo.
Then the fundamental ingredient of transcendental non-ordinary experience is memory, acknowledgement,
honoring, inclusion, not in the D-I-E sense, D-E-I sense.
So I'm going to stop taking pokes at Woke's ideology.
I'll stop there.
Inclusion in the enameletic sense of recognition of antecedents and progeny, acknowledgement,
honoring, making offerings of reverence and humility
to the entire spectrum, the broad arcs of the ancients.
Think how uncommon this is in our time.
Any person or group doing this would light up like a star, like a constellation of stars
on the surface of the earth and in the temporal manifold.
The moment as it is participated and observed by many beings, most of whom have no place
in the lexicons of the speakers of English, some of whom have a place in the lexicons
of the speakers of Hebrew, some of whom have a place in the lexicons of the speakers of
ancient Greek and other languages.
Hindi, Japanese, Chinese, Russian, each of the languages is like a spoke on a wheel of
identity containing lost features, features that went missing from the others, some of
the others.
And sometimes having unique elements that were never present in them.
True reverence and amnoetic reverence is powerful, perhaps more powerful than incantations, spells.
And certainly inclines other beings to recognize our own posture, role, the meaningful aspects
of the feathers of our identity, which are the wings of our spirit.
One of the things I hear when I hear Amun speak is the dulcet tones of an impassioned
orator.
He's capable of the old, some of the old amazing stuff, right?
He's capable of being possessed.
And one of the important features, well I don't want to leave my topic just yet.
The topic, okay, so let me return.
I will get, I'm getting as they say ahead of myself, which almost means oops, I formed
a second mind that is interfering with the one that I'm currently now using to navigate
at the moment, or to express, or to see, or to speak, or to hope, to pursue.
Because the topic of oration is very profound, ah orachio, ah orachio seems to mean, I probably
mispronouncing this, but in the mutual exploration I was listening to earlier between Gnostic
and Conformant, Amun and Aerial, Amun said ah orachio, and again I may be mishearing
or pronouncing this, it means unseen, but it sort of implies, if I've got the resemblance
right here, it implies unspoken, non-verbal, ah orachio, ah oration, non-speaking, or anoration,
be that as it may, I may have that wrong.
Sometimes Mondagrens are more revelatory of the mind of the listener, and its subterranean,
the structure and the psyche of the mind of the listener, the coral reefs of consciousness
underneath the ocean.
But I was speaking of beginnings and the importance of understanding the nuanced possibilities
of intelligent signaling, and particularly the understanding that first gestures are
crucially pervasive over future transformations and emergencies, they determine the forms,
they have a powerful determinative influence on what comes after them.
So it's sort of the opposite of prophecy, instead of you retract yourself from inaction
in a timeline that you're carefully observing, it's almost like the abstraction of temporality,
you invoke, you fertilize this moment together, you infertilize this moment according to your
mutually, not merely exciting, but impassioned or honored or fervently hoped for.
And as if the entire audience of the history of the participants, the entire lineage audience
is participating, recognized, invoked, adored, remembered, brought back to, resurrected in
