Hi everybody. Welcome to my neighborhood.
Normally, these days when you see me making videos, I'm outside and most often I'm in
the Botanical Gardens, which is the coolest really living place somewhere near me.
Although, there's another pretty weird living place near me, even though all this stuff
is owned, which I find really bizarre. When people own living places, which there aren't
really any non-living places, so all places which are owned are actually living places,
and they're covered in this kind of shit, and this kind of crap, and dominated by these
kinds of things. And apparently, this situation, which you can see replicated here, is generally
understood to be good. It's good because dead stuff is predictable, and when most of
the stuff that's unpredictable is dead, you're really likely to think that your predictions
are very powerful, and you're very intelligent, and your knowledge is good. Now, back in some
of the creation stories from some of our sky books, books about what everything is
and what you're supposed to do, some of those creation stories imply that there might be
some kind of a problem with knowledge. So, those of you who know me, who actually have
spoken with me, have certainly heard me riff a lot on Genesis, and I don't riff a lot on
Genesis because I'm Hebrew, though I like to think that part of me is. I don't riff a lot
on Genesis because I'm religious, though in a sense, part of me is. Or rather, it's weirder
than that, but let's just say I don't dismiss out of hand the remnants of the evolution of our
human minds and societies. I was attempting not to inhale an insect there a moment ago,
in case for those of you who are super observant. In the Genesis story, we were exiled from the
garden, quote unquote, at least that's one way of thinking about it. One of the things I like to do
when I'm outside is reverse that situation. I like to go to the garden. One of the things I like
about these large white daisies is that some of them, why would people be wearing masks inside
their houses? That doesn't seem good, although the wearing masks thing, I'm down with that. I have my
bandana, which I use, and I'll mention later why I said that, if I remember and stay on thread.
So in this Genesis story, there's this problem with knowledge. It's really important that we
understand. There's a lot of key features in that story that have nothing to do with whether
you're religious or not. If you don't understand them, trouble is coming your way. By the way,
here is a female crab spider. I hope I got her in the viewfinder. This is why I like these daisies,
is that they have these female crab spiders on them, and sometimes males. Remember I was saying,
I really like these daisies? Well, that's the reason. Ambush predators are really interesting to
me, but I like pretty much everything that's alive. From the tiny things, to the gigantic things,
to the separate things, to the connected things, to the unified one planet of living being thing,
all that stuff. I love that stuff. Oh, here's some more great things to love. So there's all
the stuff to love here. I'm going to get distracted by loving it. Count on it. I mean,
there's hummingbirds, and it's evening, and it's Independence Day, but I'm going to talk about
dependence and independence, but in a different kind of way. Because I don't think whatever the heck
we're supposed to be celebrating is pretty sketchy at this point, to put it mildly. Now,
here's the thing that could actually just be a fire, but instead it's a flower, right? Well,
that just looked like a fire. I mean, this is like an organism that's just blatantly trying to
emulate Van Gogh, right? When Van Gogh looked at the sun, he saw stuff like this, right?
But yeah, I mean, it's crazy. There's so many things to love here in the garden. And there's
the story that the garden that sort of our people made some kind of mistake where there was a bad
accident or something. And then after that, our people were exiled from the garden, or we exiled
ourselves, or something was all wonky. And that is a really important story. And I can speak about
that one at length. And I am of a mind to do so. So I'm going to be careful not to, because I have
other goals tonight. And I don't have too much time till the sun goes down. There's something I
madly love. Yes, yes, yes, living beings. They're awesome. So in that story, there's some kind of a
problem between sort of the first maybe like what we could imagine is the boys are going to be hard
to pick language here. The celestial template of femininity or something like this, right? I'm going
to pretend that the Eve sort of vaguely resembles this bizarre language. And some kind of a thing that
makes divisions as it goes. Really important idea. When a snake travels, right, when a serpent travels,
divides the world into two is that side of its path over here, and this side over here. And he
signs have been now divided by the passage of this wave like thing that goes like this and slithers
and stuff. Not to mention the fact that it resembles other things, right? So Eve gets in trouble with
something referred to as a serpent in English. I should know the Hebrew word. But again, it's not my
goal to tell this story tonight. I'm just going to reference it briefly. And a tree that is not
merely in the midst of the garden, but something far more interesting. It is the umbilicus of the
garden. That's what is meant by midst or something much more like this is meant by midst. It's not
middle. And the humans are told, you know, don't mess with that tree in the midst. And it's kind of
like they're being told don't mess with the umbilicus of the earth. Because something's hanging out
there. One of the other kinds of children is hanging out out there. And if you two kinds of kids get
together, you're going to show each other your toys, and it's going to be a big problem. Because
you're going to then have knowledge. You will know stuff. And I know this is going to seem like a
really exciting and good thing. And for, you know, thereafter, if you do this, it's going to be
about the best thing you have, which won't be very good compared to what you'll lose to get it.
And I can't say precisely what it is that gets lost that way. But it's something we might call
innocence. And it's also something that we might refer to as intimate participation in being.
In the incredibly ecstatic layers of co-reverential,
adorative beingness that are the garden.
And so that'll be a lot like death. In fact, God says don't do this or you'll die.
And the serpent, for his part, kind of gets loyally about it. He goes, well, you won't actually die.
God was being hyperbolic. We'll actually know he was being metaphoric or
simileistic or analogical. He meant a part of you, you really don't even understand exists because
you're never separate from it, will go away. And that's part of what knowledge does. And by the way,
in case it isn't clear, knowledge is a game of cutting things into parts and arranging them
into little skeletal fucking maps and shit. So you probably don't want to trade intimacy
for something like that. I don't want to photograph of the skeleton of my mother,
even though, hey, I'll get some knowledge from it. It isn't that knowledge isn't
amazing as somebody who has always been inclined toward intellectuality. They're not merely that.
And love, I love learning. I absolutely love to learn. And unfortunately, I think I know things.
It's surprising how knowledge kills off stuff like passion and curiosity and insight. Now,
it doesn't do it all by itself. There's other things that help like context and situation,
peer pressure, stuff that makes you dumber, like our relationships with machines, particularly
mostly with computers and televisions and shit like that. Though there are exceptions.
There are ways to use these technologies that at least, I mean, we have the same problem with
language. Language makes us dumber unless we're really, really careful about how we use it.
Because once you know the name of something, you think, you know what that something is,
and that's knowledge. Now, as you can see, it doesn't really matter how much what you know
about something that is, right? It ends the mystery. And when the mystery ends,
the participation ends, and you get a little tokenized piece of junk that you can start your
friend to say, that's a tree, right? And you can confidently believe that you know what that is,
because you know its name. And knowledge is like this, knowledge masquerades as intimacy and
participation, a true understanding when in fact, most of the time, what knowledge gives us is
overstanding. So we humans have a problem with knowledge to put it mildly. You also get problems
like society's so stupid that their scientific discoveries are absolutely lethal because of
the uses to which they will be put. And that actually gets you killed. That's real death,
right? And all kinds of other difficult problems that I'm not here to talk about much today.
But I just wanted to
park and back to this idea of independence. You know, there's some good kinds of independence,
and there's some really bad kinds of independence. And independence from sanity or insight,
or from the source of being, or from the umbilicus that connects us to nature is death.
You die. Congratulations, you're now independent, and you're gone, right? Or most of you is gone,
or the most important parts of you are gone. And what happened, in a way, in the story in the
garden, one way of thinking about it, and there are lots of really useful, intelligent ways to
understand this story. This is a story of a great and terrible accident that is not bullshit,
and it has nothing to do with whether you believe in God or not. You want to understand
this fucking story. Most likely, it's the remnant of long-lost, like, those books at the beginning
of the Bible, very unlikely they were written in the forms they have today. They look to me like
the stitched-together fragments of a lost entire book, right? Ooh, Feral Black Cat.
Very interested in that. I'm going to have to check that out,
because I know some black cats around here that are important to me, or at least the
spirit of one that used to be that's really important to me. We can have intelligent
relationships with knowledge, partly by understanding it's dangerous. The same good is true of language.
And some people think that knowledge is a lot like the stuff that comes out of these,
which are the beehives at the top of the garden. Very important idea. Above the garden,
there were beehives. They aren't mentioned in the book, but above the garden,
which is an analog of something itself, there was another analog that was the analog of bees.
And from the assets in the garden, those meta-bees make something like meta-honey.
You know, it's funny. Explosions make people independent.
One good explosion, thousands of people become immediately independent.
And all that stuff we like about lights in the sky and blah, blah, blah,
that stuff's all metaphors. It's physical metaphors of things we've never seen,
but those things are the metaphors of insight or sudden, unexpected,
catastrophically ecstatic awakening to the fundamental nature of being or
to an intimate relationship with a living place or living beings. Those things we call fireworks.
Those are analogs of something we are supposed to be able to experience.
The humans have this problem with representing things, especially relationships.
Money is one of those representations. It's not a good thing.
In any case, independence. Well, of course, people will say,
Darren, come on, we're talking about the establishment of the United States and its
independence from Britain, which was a tyrannical oligarchy, and I'll say, yeah,
and look how far we've come. No, I would say other things. I would talk about sea pirates and
the indigenous people and the land before our arrival, our, not meaning mine and yours,
but the ancestors of this country, who I don't necessarily feel entirely responsible for the
actions of. I am not those people. In any case, the kind of independence that I think is really
interesting and potentially good is the kind where usually after many years of some difficult
meditative discipline, someone cuts through the mind. They escape the mind, the mind labyrinth.
The labyrinth of I am myself and I know these things and, you know, this
this weird kind of problem that we have where
we are at once distinct and among many others of our kind. We are independent and dependent.
So one of the kinds of independence that I think is good, and there are a number,
you know, there's ways of enacting this idea that aren't implicitly only toxic.
Obviously, we are absolutely dependent on what we refer to as nature or living places and living
beings for our lives. So if you were to become independent from that, you'd be dead.
And also you'd stop participating in the living beings and their relationships and their places.
And if those living beings and their relationships and their places that keep you alive
just become commodities, which you exchange tokens to kill and torture, then you're dying.
And that's a kind of living death because those living places and beings and things that we refer
to as food, those are our own bodies and minds. They just happen to be outside the specific
local body of Daren or at least that's one of the ways that I am inclined to understand what's
going on. It's not the truth. It's an as if story. It's a model. It's a theory.
There are kinds of independence, right? Independence from insanity, real insanity,
independence from tyrannical monarchies and oligarchies and plutocracies and aristocracies
and shit like this. You know, if intelligently enacted, pretty good stuff.
I'm kind of a fan of meritocracies in general, but I wouldn't get too severe about it.
Partially because I'm not a huge fan of complex hierarchies. In any case, we're
dependently independent all the time. But what I want to talk about today is dependence.
Now, I know a number of very intelligent people and I know a number of very skillful people.
So, and I know some very creative people and I know people who are pretty sober,
so we're minded, right? Like the knowledge and intelligence they're inclined to share and
produce is relatively trustworthy, relatively within the contexts where it's trustworthy
and not beyond them. Knowledge is generally trustworthy in contexts. Humans, we humans
derive our roles primarily from contexts and specifically from relationships within contexts.
So, we kind of unconsciously read the context usually, although sometimes consciously.
And then we unconsciously kind of read the roles and relationships in there,
sometimes somewhat consciously. And then we start to play at one of those roles and build
relationships within the context and hopefully nurture them. And, or you know, we run away
from that whole thing because it's terrifying and imposes a kind of inner social simulation
of the possibility of being judged by the people or roles or relationships in the context. It's
very complicated, all this stuff. However, there's a couple of simple facts that are useful. And one is,
it's very difficult to understand a situation when you yourself are in it by yourself.
And the necessity of having to do this drives people insane. And for many of us, it's not
that short of a trip because most of us contain the seeds of various kinds of insanity. And if those
seeds are properly nurtured by isolation, individualism, stress, deprivation, intoxication, or accident,
misadventure, if those seeds get properly nourished, we have full blown insanity.
We become psychotic or schizophrenic or we become
subject to mania or bipolar disorder or borderline personality disorder or whatever.
A particular little specialization of insanity happens to get the most water in the right
circumstances to become floridly expressed in and as our consciousness. And that is a miserable
situation, although some forms of genius depend on something very similar or even are sub-symptoms
of madness. And this is a very peculiar thing, which is not to be confused with the assertion
that madness is prodigy. Now, back to dependencies and being dependent and being independent.
It has long been my experience that humans are what I would refer to as pod animals.
We're sort of a cross between pod animals and super organisms, but the weird thing is
in our resemblance to super organisms, we don't do what the super organisms tend to do,
like the hymenoptera, the ants, bees, and wasps, particularly those kinds that entermites,
they form a very complexly distributed organism. They're like a single organism distributed
in thousands of millions of bodies. And they may take coherence in all kinds of astonishing ways
that include pheromone transfer and caste or cased relations. And so you have soldiers and
workers and you have the queen and you have some males and things are weird. It's really
science fiction, but we don't serve the queen when we form super organisms. We serve representations,
and by exist, I mean to be alive in the domain of being, right? So we serve this kind of crap.
We serve tokens and representations. We form religions, which actually divide us from what
their story is about, ironically, and we suffer all kinds of other agonizing ironies and
repercussions of our hubris. When this happens to us, we perform super organisms. We call these
nations today and corporations are like them too. That's not the only way we can do it.
But if something is not at the center, something really deeply meaningful and alive and profound
isn't at the center of our unity as as peoples, as what we call nations or societies, then something
really malignant gets in there and starts producing representations, right? And this is part of what
