that's what brings it to your attention in the first place, right? So it's included see even
though you don't include it in your evaluation whether it's true or not it becomes a topic because
it's popular. So it's part of the you know it's part of the situation that we just get its value
wrong and then we flatten things out and we form rules, right? Not we but some some of us do this
and I'm presenting these things so that we can be aware of them and avoid them, both.
That's simply not intelligent, right? If you're doing either of those things you're missing
something, something really important which is the capacity to disambiguate layers,
constellated layers of data and ideas, perceptions, observations, theories,
and link these up in a way where you can validate or invalidate it and not just because you think
it looks right, right? You need some you have some tests, right? If you want to know if your
stuff's good you got to test it carefully and you don't test it to prove it, you test it to defeat
it, right? You come at it from every direction you possibly can to defeat it first and then if
it survives all that stuff that's probably reliable information, right? If it falls down
it's probably not reliable information. It's relatively simple. This isn't critical thinking 1A
but it's close, right? This is how you tell. You try to tear it down. You don't tell by getting up
on top of it with a flag and a gun and going oh that's not intelligence that's necromania
or insanity or whatever, right? So my simple point though is that
as individuals we're kind of fucked, right? None of us we were made to be organs in bodies
in teams and we most of us are best in that way. We just don't find in our culture or societies
this on offer. We have to either build it ourselves, right? And we have to that's a
complex process that most of us are going to emulate shit we've seen in culture and society
because we've never done it alone. And you can't just walk up to strangers and go like
do you know what a pod is? Do you want to be like part of a team that helps each other to learn
and survive and grow and understand what's going on more and more intelligently and more skillfully
as time goes on and maybe even has the power to manipulate the representational frames and contexts
in which we're all enmeshed directly from above them? Does that sound interesting to you?
I mean people are going to go like Darren yes it does. Can we do that now? And I'll say maybe.
There are some preliminaries that have to be dealt with too and some pragmatic problems that have
to be dealt with before that's easy although it's usually easy at least I mean we can do it when
we want to at least as one of the overlays in our complex life which can still include membership
in things like the United States and the state of California and Greenpeace or you know the
Sea Shepherd Conservation Society and different kinds of memberships and you know I'm a renter
and whatever I have this medical plan right in all those overlays right there's a place for
the pod overlay if we want to build it and we should build it. This is part of the promise
of romantic love by the way this is part of why people fall in love because they're tired of
being an organ by itself and they want feedback and they want mirrored like emotional mirroring
and all kinds of things because this is the kind of animal we are. We're evolutionarily inclined
toward behaviors like those I hear described which means we are not inclined against those
behaviors in the ways that our you know society of independence keeps hammering home in really
bizarre ways because we are the most enslaved independent people I have ever wished I didn't
have to imagine and if I have to like paint that on a chalkboard for you how that's true
um that would be unfortunate because it should be really really obvious right
we are enslaved five ways to Sunday and in fact we're so enslaved that our convenience is further
enslave us right stuff that's supposed to liberate us has the opposite fucking effect
stuff that's supposed to make us smarter largely makes us dumber most of the time
so we could do with some dependence you know we could do with recognizing our dependence
on what the the shredded remains of the anciently conserved ecologies we could do with some dependence
on people who who are actually capable of producing viable intelligence in a crisis
or a time of opportunity we could use some dependence on people who care for us
authentically deeply and with whom we feel we belong and for whom we might be willing to
give our lives not just because there's some representation of unity but because there's
an actual unity that we meaningful we we inhabit the between of meaningfully skillfully sobs you
know with sobriety and reverence and care and wonder and awe and playfulness intelligence
creativity we all need this i'm not telling everyone what to need hey live the way you like
but human beings in general yes i'm making a generalization here or at least some large segment
of them we could really benefit from some dependence because the the spiritual myths of personal
sovereignty and uh surpassing the need for the care of others these aren't entirely myths maybe
i misspoke the spiritual program of achieving freedom from the self and from you know what we
refer to as dependent phenomenon um in buddhism and such like this
that's a different topic right it doesn't invalidate the topic that i'm here discussing
that's a separate layer that's like the layer of um deep life path work and meditative work
um the quest for awakening or the thing that we really shouldn't call enlightenment
that's a that's a separate topic and that topic in the topic that i am discussing here
relate actually relate with each other right in that if we're going to work toward goals like those
we should also embody something compassionate intelligent and clear-minded in our actual
daily activity and jobs vocations relations the way we forge societies and we have to start
forging societies because the ones that come pre-forged are pre-infected with pirates and
shit and rapists and fucking terrifying soldier things and all kinds of crap and they're not
infected with rewarding roles for you and me right we're going to get something
far rather than rewarding roles for you or me if we subscribe to most of the crap
that's already going on so we have to do something different from that
and i envision um small extremely skillful little sort of the the alo family analog of a
of a complex intelligent unit intelligence unit that can intrude on any context
and just sort of manipulate it for their own benefit um in ways that are humane and noble
and heroic and sort of robin hootish um i envision something like that i envision a future where
where humans will return to this incredibly skillful capacity to form and deploy
teams together within for each other for the history of future history and future of life on
earth not to make explosions in the sky of gunpowder on days that remember something that
right now has been pretty much perfectly ironically counterfeited if there was anything
good about it in the first place some may think that unpatriotic but in a sense there's a difference
between the letters of patriotism right adhering to the letter and appearing to the spirit
and i am inclined to the latter hopefully you are too thanks for joining me bye bye for now
