religion is actually about, understanding whether or not you believe in anything having to do with
gods or metaphysics. There's a lot of knowledge that can be gleaned from understanding religions
without having to take them as being literal or even declarative of the nature of the divine or
the nature of origin or any of these things. It's a very sophisticated story, these religions.
In any case, we are pod animals. We are like dolphins or dog packs or maybe
prairie dog warrens, apes, chimpanzees, whales, orcas,
or pod animals. And what that means is that under, and you can see this in all of our
representational sort of departure from our actual nature, right? You can see this in
that we form, like the way we form military hierarchies and stuff, right? We have sports teams,
we form a number of differently titled military units and groupings and, you know,
our ships float in convoys, on and on and on, right? Just watch the humans and you'll see them
doing this everywhere you look, whether you're looking at a 7-Eleven, a university, an operating
theater, a film company, you name it, it's got these little organ things and it forms a union
out of like something like this, right? And the humans aren't really consciously aware
that this is one of their fundamental properties as animals and one of their relational priorities as
beings. But it is. And what we're used to doing, which we do very poorly when these
these little unions are represented rather than embodied, all of our otherwise amazing assets
fuck up and become pathological. And by the way, that's what happens when you get independent humans.
Just in case this isn't obvious to you, it's not a law, right? None of these things I'm saying are
laws. They are perspectives, they are frames we can use to see clearly into some aspects of
stuff that would otherwise confuse the fuck out of us and usually does.
And some of us, I'm not going to say that.
See, even in my own mind, I have already developed something that resembles a pod,
right? And what I mean by a pod is something not entirely unlike this, a group of each,
you know, relative, somewhat similar members that also have unique features, abilities,
senses, perspectives, capacities for insight and awareness and so on. And so, for example,
I could say it's not really true, but I could say that there is an aspect of my mind that is
concerned with threat detection, right? I just looked over my, did you see that? Right? Just as
I was about to speak of it, and that wasn't an intentional thing, I checked for trouble, right?
So you have an aspect that does threat detection and you can think of it, I don't agree in general
with doing this because there's much better models, but you could think of it as a computer
program because computer programs do something relatively similar. They run down a string of
sort of if-then-while loops over time and there's a timing aspect, right, that refreshes the screen
of my iPod every so, you know, every thousand times per second or whatever, 12,000, 75,000,
150,000. Things get refreshed and even though we don't see when we look at our computers operating,
this timeline of little, little functions, right, that each are unique and that together form a
coherent whole, something not entirely dissimilar from that is happening as our minds. Even though
I'm not a big fan of the mechanical metaphor because we don't resemble machines. Machines resemble
mechanical, mechanized functions, analogies of mechanized functions we are familiar with from
our minds and relationships and behaviors and such. So I'm in danger of running out of time,
but I have different aspects of my mind, right? There's a threat detector, there's an opportunity
detector, I have a sense of humor, I have emotions that may come online and respond to something
unexpectedly, where a moment ago I felt totally ordinary, I could feel really terrified in the
next moment or I could begin crying. I could even start right now to think about something that
will make me cry and start crying. We have aspects of the mind that like choose what to think about
and how often and when and why and then we have aspects of mind that explain all of that
and form theories and models and so there's all these little, little like organs we can think
of, we can imagine and I'd like you to imagine an organ trying to work by itself.
You know, imagine your brain with no body and no senses. Sound like fun? Imagine your heart
with no blood and no circulatory system. Think about your liver all by itself or your pancreas
or your lungs or any organ you care about, right? Your eye completely useless on its own.
So you can see that knowledge is kind of confusing because we have, we think of these organs as
separate and that's convenient for certain purposes but there's no such thing as a separate organ.
They all, they all are part of this union that is my body and that body is part of a union
that has all kinds of transports that extend into everything that has ever lived or will live,
in my view, but certainly I have relationships with everything that's alive right now for
absolutely certain zero mysteries or metaphysics needed.
Now when we're in pods that are good, we get the analogy of a family unit or a team. Now that
doesn't always work out well, particularly in modern situations, for reasons I probably don't
have to explain to you, but sometimes it does work out very well. There are families that are
unimaginably coherent and really function well together and they each have unique roles and
abilities and feelings of belonging and communion and reverence and awe and wonder and playfulness
that are natural to the kind of incredible scope of our humanity, most of which we don't get a lot
of experience of most of us, though some of us manage to do so even in these really strange
contexts that we're presently in. My point here, however, is that a point that can be made from
technology, in order to triangulate you need three positions. If you're inside a bad situation by
yourself, you're in trouble because you can't triangulate by yourself and we have the same
problem in language because most of us, myself included, only speak a single language, I speak
English formally, we cannot triangulate on identity from the perspective of multiple languages,
which would give us, we might as a person who could do that would be like a different species of
homo sapiens, cognitively, because the difference is like the difference between having one finger
and having five and even three fingers is a lot better than one. So what I'm trying to get at is
hot animals like us depend on relational, on significant relational others to triangulate
on meaning and identity and value and urgency and all kinds of things that I could go on forever
about. And when we're broken out of meaningful pods and placed in representations of pods,
we suffer and many of us go mad. But if we're in a particularly difficult situation, then we really
need close, sober-minded, not insane, intelligent, reliably intelligent, their knowledge is reliable
and we can feel confident in including them in our own minds and imaginations because we feel
confident they at least won't make things worse, right? They won't lead us astray and at best can
help us navigate and help to correct our inner compass when that compass has been replaced by
terror or crisis or poverty or illness or all five things and more or whatever I realize I only named
four. But you know, leave a spot for mystery. Why am I walking not in the garden? I'm walking,
oh I guess I just got tired of walking back and forth in the small little garden.
In any case, this won't be good. There's too many cars here.
When things get rough, we need more trustworthy, close relations to help us understand,
to help us manage and relate with unexpected
situations that deviate from the predictability that we expect from something that's mostly
not moving and just stays in one form all the time and that kind of crap. And by the way,
you can think of this, all this structure around here. You can think of that as like the crispy
surface of something under which there's something like hardened butter and under that there's something
like broiling butter and underneath that there's something like flowing water and what I'm getting
at is this is an overlay, right? It's an overlay of stability in certain dimensions of time, space
and relation that gives the illusion of predictable stability. And since we're commonly, we commonly
find ourselves in contexts like this, including inside our houses where everything's except maybe
our pets and if there's a plant blowing in the breeze, everything's still, it's all dead.
We made it so predictable that we don't have to attend it anymore so we can then just become
independent. In other words, go to sleep. In other words, be anesthetized.
And in those boxes, we are inclined to become anesthetized to life in relation and change and
meaning and adventure. Well, my point is simply when things get rough and unpredictable like they
are now in our culture, it's much more important then for us to forge Neo families, right? Allo
families. We need to belong to groups, even of three or four or five people that are really
meaningfully connected and that are orbiting something that is noble and beautiful and true,
inspiring, reassuring, intelligent, you know, heuristically
sophisticated in the right ways. We need sobriety, particularly in the sense of
resistance to overreaction, clear insight, concise communications. We need all these things but
essentially we need other trusted minds to sort of bounce ideas off of and bounce perceptions off of
and use to correct our own perceptions and help to guide us when we're injured or confused or sick
or there's a crisis, right? And what we're getting from our culture is the opposite of that. Not
surprisingly, you can use that to make all kinds of money and gather all kinds of power because once
the humans are disoriented, they are easily had. All of us are like that but our kind of animal
depends fundamentally on being, having a meaningful role in an actual pod that we trust and is rewarding
and that we recognize and have like a felt sense of deep, meaningful belonging to and this is why
things like corporations or the army or the police or whatever organization you want to pick
with a few exceptions that are actually almost noble or maybe even, you know, approaching
true nobility, very few. This is why humans do this. This is why they make sports teams.
Those teams are representations of something we've long ago lost and people have the deepest kind of
weird, substitutive, like substitutioning response to that stuff, right? They're like
the sports team might as well be, I don't know, their angel, their god, their tribe,
what? Something. It's like you'll see people have reactions. They'll have no other place of their
life, right? Watching a basketball game or a baseball game or a football game or a soccer game.
Stadiums, thousands of people will split into two and start attacking each other
over a soccer game, right? Why is that? You ever wonder about that? Give it some thought.
This stuff's important and interesting.
And there's all kinds of explanations, not just mine, but it's still important to understand.
We are missing something from our common experience and it's not inconceivable that
we can return that something to our common experience, but we first have to know something
about what was missing and we'd have to have the ability to understand what it means to assemble
these little pods, these little alo families and then we would have to intend to do that and be
willing to work with the fact that we're not very good at it yet and we're going to make mistakes and
Joe's going to sleep with Tammy, Robert's wife and whatever the flight someone's dog is going to
get hit by, like things are going to happen, right? That we're unprepared for and that we
don't want to happen because we're human. We're not perfect. So if we want to do something like this,
and I think we have to actually, and in fact I strive to do it and we can do it with as few as
two people, you know, at least when the heart gets together with the liver, it's a little better than
the heart of the liver by themselves, right? But each person has unique skills and assets that
they bring and express in a meaningful way inside a little alo family, even if it's only temporary,
even if it only lasts an hour, so that we can, who knows what, go to see a lecture together,
stop and have wine and discuss it afterwards, right? People form pretty good pods, PGP,
rather spontaneously often, but if they're oriented to do this in a meaningful way,
in a way that protects all of the members and gives them benefits they can't get elsewhere,
creates a ladder of accomplishment and learning and intelligence and new opportunities for everyone
in the group, as it just naturally does what it does, that's a, that would be miraculous
and a lot like what we were born for as humans.
But I was speaking with a friend today and it was very apparent to both of us that you can't go,
you can't go independently into crisis. I mean, can't? Okay, sure, you can. It's not going to work
out well in, you know, the vast majority of cases. Again, there is, there are forms of
independence that are relatively trustworthy and useful, but those aren't generally accessible
to the common person. These are, these are life paths that are uncommon, often very painful,
sometimes extremely lonely, isolating, dangerous, fraught with peril,
but it's not impossible if that's, you know, the way you absolutely think is the right way.
However, you know, there are loner, there are loner dolphins, there's probably loner whales,
um, I'm guessing, loner apes, maybe, I kind of doubt it, unless they're really sick or something.
So we need each other and we need each other more. When the context itself,
the familiar, seemingly stable context in the between of everything has gone to
shit, which is exactly what is going on right now, 12 ways to Sunday, in layers we can't even
observe. In some layers that I'm going to claim humans don't even know exist, right? There's like,
there's sudden shocking transformation in layers of the great everything around here,
right now, that are deeply weird and terrifying. And if we're going to get any kind of reasonable,
insane, you know, handle, grasp, awareness, insight, so on, into these, into this, our situation,
we're going to need intelligent, trustworthy others to examine it together with. And if we form
those relationships will help us to maintain some semblance of actual sanity,
the good kind. I don't just mean clean, cleanness. And, you know, they will, they will help us to
form trustworthy orientations in otherwise incoherent, um, noise, right? Like, right now,
the noise floor in common media and signaling is so high that even people who are really good
at disambiguating it are overwhelmed. So this is a time when we really need
intelligent, sober, few close people with whom we check in with, right? And ask them questions,
like, what's your sense of blah, blah, blah? Are you dreaming? How's your health? You know,
basic like we're checking in, right? We're going to triangulate on the situations that we are
experiencing together instead of me having a kind of insane and maybe even, you know,
what's the right word?
Well, a theory that I'm very compelled by
that doesn't actually match much or any of what's actually going on around me.
And this is what happens to people who become isolated is they tend to form these because
they start collecting evidence and the evidence isn't really for an actual case. It's for something
that doesn't exist yet. They start collecting evidence, they get a lot of evidence. The evidence
acquires gravity, right? Because it's so massive, this pool of evidence that suddenly in a lightning
flash it all links up and develops gravity and becomes like a star of terror or megalomania
or psychosis in their minds. Or even just incoherent confusion, right? You've got a story,
it's the wrong story, you're totally married to it, right? This is all my fault is a really common one
and there's lots of factors of our disembodied abstract society that want everybody to believe
that because they want them to believe it's a society of individuals and in a society of
individuals everything's your fault. You're sick, it's your fault. You're the only one there,
right? You get injured, it's your fault. It's all your fault.
It's a blame game that doesn't work out very well. That doesn't mean that I don't
recognize usefully and with some sobriety the importance of personal responsibility, right?
These two things can coexist. It's not one or the other, as in many of our flat insane narratives
that we form by being independently minded. Now there's also virtues in independence from the
crowd but that doesn't mean that people, it is not uncommon for even very intelligent people to
become confused. And to believe for example two kinds of rhetorical fallacies. One, that because
something's popular it's necessarily true. Well just about everybody thinks that blah blah blah
that has nothing to do with whether something is reasonable or sane or sober or intelligent
or even creative. And the other fallacy is
yeah all those sheeple or believe in blah blah blah so it must not be true.
That's just as dumb as the first one. Both of those rules will get you killed and they'll get
your friends and family and pod members killed. Rhetorical fallacies are something we do have a
responsibility to learn together and teach each other. And these are both fallacies of popular
appeal or you know the some of the fallacies if you just invert them you get another fallacy and
this is the case, right? The popular people believe it, it must be true. The popular people
believe it, it must not be true. No you evaluate ideas based on all kinds of factors that you know
might even slightly include like hey how many people are talking about this because sometimes
