When we're children, essentially we're told you're not supposed to smell green.
You're not supposed to hear circles.
And we have a strange intruder in modern consciousness
that's a bit demonic in the sense of
declaring to us what the appropriate forms of sensing and relation are, must be,
should be, which ones indicate illness or damage or
what is perceived or projected as dangerous diversion.
Dangerous diversity.
And so we have this idea of hallucination.
Now the idea is useful and we shouldn't throw it away.
It's certainly plausible and possible, and some of us have experienced it,
that we may hallucinate in certain situations of extreme stress or ecstasy,
danger, illness, or creativity.
Because how is the music composed?
It's half-dreamt and half-assembled and half-something else I can't say.
And it's the same with writing or poetry or even speaking,
to a more limited degree, depending on how we're speaking and why we're speaking.
And to whom we speak, to whom we imagine we speak,
because who truly knows who they're speaking to?
We have to imagine it, and so in a way we are hallucinating listeners,
communication partners, lovers.
When two people meet and there's romantic interest, trust me when I tell you their imagination is
deeply involved in all kinds of different ways. But what I wanted to point out is that
there's an encompassing super sense, and it's not like any of our senses,
and it certainly isn't mere hallucination. We can tell whether we like the food or not.
And that's a complex constellation of stimuli and circumstance, and so on,
who we're with, where we are, our history, what happened a minute ago, what happened yesterday,
what happened 10 years ago. What we imagine might happen in the future.
All these things are included somehow, but they're none of them sufficient
to explain or describe the super sense with which our experience,
in which our experience is integrated and becomes meaningful or meaningless, confusing or inspiring.
But we should all be free to discover what it means to be human together,
and discovering what it means to be subject to machines together is a curse.
It's not only a curse. Someone who can preserve some of our essential interiority
can play detective in the midst of the curse.
And get a glimpse of what's actually going on underneath all of that,
or maybe a series of glimpses that over time become meaningful, as perhaps some of mine have.
We're not merely humans though, I'll tell you this much. Whatever it is we may be.
The common ideas that surround and inform our humanity are both woefully incomplete
and cripplingly domineering.
The post my friend made in the article she associated with it about synesthesia
rang a bell with me in a deep way.
Because in states of trance or ecstasy, and sometimes in states of intoxication,
the natural synesthesia that I suspect
may be fundamental to our experience of being
is available to us in at least some limited way.
And many people have viewed some indigenous art.
An example might be the paintings of the Huichol people or the indigenous Australians.
They look at these paintings and they think, oh, they're doing psychedelics.
It's really unfortunate, this idea. And it's not that they never did or they're not doing psychedelics
or something like that, but rather they're very simple ways of inducing trance in humans.
But we have to learn them, some of them. Some of them are built into us in a way.
Well, that's the wrong language, but some of them are innate in us.
And these ancient peoples had common everyday, unintoxicated experience
of profound synesthesia where, for example, they could not merely see the strands
of essence connecting all beings. They could feel them and perhaps even travel on them.
And these arts have mostly been lost to us, though there are some strange remnants.
And one of the reasons why I'm very cautious about the topic of psychedelics, and I have complex
feelings and ideas about it is because it's easy for us to find something where we can
just flip the switch and now we're having an experience that we don't usually have.
And that's dangerous for lots of reasons. That can actually further inhibit the faculties
that we're seeking in taking such a risk. Because then those faculties become associated with
the drug and we think, oh, it's the drug that did this. Well, actually, it's not so much like that.
It's more complex. It's an intimacy, a symbiotic experience of being together
with the plant, its spirit, its history, its nature, and our
interiority and history and nature, our minds.
And of course, all things transform our minds when we take them in. Water transforms our mind.
Foods transform our mind. It's just that some drugs do this very dramatically, very powerfully,
and fairly quickly in some cases.
In the image in my friend's post, an Indigenous woman
was photographed while in the clapping trance, a synesthetic
mode of awareness that is catalyzed by clapping in certain rhythms.
Drums and rattles and high-pitched sounds
have all long been used to catalyze group trance, which is a really profound thing
that I think we're missing out on a lot, and individual trance states in which we can seek
to learn and see in ways that our ordinary waking mind is not only incapable of,
it may be formally opposed to.
And this is in part why some people under the influence of certain intoxicants experience
paranoia, because, well, this is an aspect of that issue. It's not the explanation, it's an ingredient,
but the waking mind forms a structured mannequin in a way, a kind of an ear-sat self,
and it's extremely, once this is formed, it becomes profoundly interested in preserving its
dominance, and maybe even preserving it eternally. Some people want to live forever, but what really
wants to live forever is the kind of the mannequin, the doll of them. Ego is often used as a word to
point at this aspect of our humanity, and it isn't that we'd want to get rid of it,
but we might like to be able to take the costume off, and this is the important thing here.
This is the liberty I ache for, for myself and all people, is that it's okay if we want to wear
the costume of the mannequin, but it's a terrible trap if we can't take it off or tell the difference
between that and ourselves, right, or that and our essence, that and our true nature between that
and the original light, we are the embodiment and moment of being of.
In truth, I adore and have great reverence for the living world and all of its beings,
even those people who don't like me, even those people who want to hurt me,
and there are a few, and they probably think I don't know what they're up to, but I can tell
what they're up to and why they're up to it, at least in the near at hand scope,
where someone who has decided they're my enemy
uh embarks on a mission to cause me harm,
and thankfully there aren't too many such people, but there are a few.
Some of them are quite skillful, some of them pay very close attention,
but I love them, and I don't wish them harm.
I suppose I'm capable of war and combat and things like this,
but they're not my uh my preferred modes of relation,
and once one becomes concerned with war and adversaries and adversarial processes,
now we're kind of in a trap again, another kind of trap where our threat sentinel
aspect of awareness that watches for threats,
and represents them in consciousness. This thing can become,
it's the kind of thing where if you give it too much sugar, it quickly becomes most of what's going
on. Give it a little sugar, it wants more, give it more, it wants five times more, give it that,
it wants 50 times more pretty soon, really in trouble in our minds.
But I adore the living beings, all of the living beings of earth, and the sky,
and even the beings who, the intelligences who exist without needing to be locally embodied.
There are many interesting opportunities in being that are nothing like our ideas.
They're vastly stranger. There are intelligences who participate in all embodied form,
all embodied beings. There are intelligences that can travel from body to body,
from place to place, time to time, situation to situation. They're not bound by time,
and they're not bound by form.
Perhaps we are such intelligences, but we have forgotten this.
The structured rationality of language and public thinking can easily overwhelm
the subtle senses that would otherwise effloresce and develop, and that would be progress.
That to me seems like trustworthy progress.
But I'd like us to be able to take off the costume of self,
and this is something I've pursued, and I'm very interested in understanding more about.
And we might need a little help, you know, in a living place, or a tree, or a lake,
or a river, or the mountain, the clouds, the sun, the moon, the morning star,
the companion star, the dipper stars, the plady stars, the thunderbird constellation,
but you won't find in any book the flower, the bee, the dragonfly, the goose, owl,
all of these beings, they can help us.
If we're oriented in reverence and respect, in love and mutual concern.
But yeah, this costume of Darren, it's quite troubling, and I'm sure I'd be happier without it.
I was thinking earlier, or I often think about dreaming, I was thinking that
maybe our waking life is like the dreaming of our soul prior to its embodiment, or beyond its embodiment.
And then our dreaming life is a return to intimacy with that
not yet fully embodied and structured potential, that energy, that
that synthesizing flow.
And I don't know what death is, like most embodied beings, I fear it.
And yet, I suspect there's something very familiar about all of that,
something we've been through a million times before and may be experiencing
thousands of times per second without being aware of it.
It's not so bad.
But I like being embodied. Maybe that's my problem.
Not a big fan of the costume though.
I mean, it has beautiful aspects and features, but again, if we can't take it off,
we can't, there's no way to tell what's good, what's desirable or undesirable.
And of course, one could say, well, let go of desire altogether, find your way,
become your way free of desire and revulsion.
And there's something to that too.
But the words don't generate the experience. And the strange thing about our waking mind
is that structured ideas and habits over time collapse our sensitivity
into a costume that were we free of it, we would never voluntarily put on, especially if we knew
that once we put it on, we will see and act and live and think and feel as if the costume were
ourselves, and we will try to protect it at all costs, often at terrible costs.
Few of us would sign up for that experiment, yet perhaps somehow each of us did.
Most of being in relation is invisible to thought and our senses.
And it's only if we can be freed from the costume and the habits and the structured
freeways and metropolises of consciousness as we inherited it and as we were imprinted with
its imperatives in our youth and throughout our lives.
Only when we are free of that can we understand directly, right? Now all sensing becomes super
sensing and it's implicitly trustworthy, but this is a rare achievement for human beings.
With the exception perhaps of young infants who are very close to the state, if not already,
attempting to convince the adults of its importance, but they don't have language yet,
so the adults don't know what to make of it, and they think, oh that's very cute.
Meanwhile, the child's gentle gesture with its outstretched hand
is an invitation to another universe and it wants to bring its parents home
to the place of original light that is shining in the gaze of the infant
and decluted in the gaze of the adult. However deeply that gaze may hint
that what is hidden underneath. Thank you for joining me. I look forward to learning and growing
and exploring together again very soon. Bye bye for now.
