Hello, everybody. Welcome to another mind walk in the garden. I don't yet have a topic
in mind today. It's a relatively gray day, as the past few have been. There could be a little
rain, but my predictive capacities suggest not so much. It's often foggy in my neighborhood.
Sometimes there's mist. It's surprising how different the character, the deep feeling of
the situation is in bright sunlight or gray cloudiness. And it can change very quickly from one to the
other. Our minds are somewhat like this. I suppose most of us are easily captivated by or repulsed by
strong stimuli. We live in a world of mechanical noises and extremely penetrating forms of light,
an electromagnetic radiation that never existed on earth until we began building the machines
that emit them. And there were other things that never existed too, like cages or even religions.
There must have been a time in the developmental history of our species where there were no
formal languages too. And strangely or perhaps intriguingly, there's this idea of roots in
language, small particles that themselves have meaning and get woven into words. And while I think
this idea is useful and interesting, there are alternative perspectives where what we can see
in some ancient languages, if we look at them as they develop over time, or even if we look at them in
state, so to speak, in how they are now, where it appears that whole sentences or longer forms of
language became words, became single words. And this contradicts some of the theory of roots.
Though I think the reality is much more complicated, or let's say this, it has diverse aspects, not one
or two. Earlier I was thinking about, I think about language a lot, and I was thinking about, well,
I don't just think about language, I'm some kind of linguistic archaeologist, detective, poet,
writer, philosopher, yet I'd reject all those labels because none of them really capture
these fascinations and their origins in my concern. Might be a little bit of wind noise here, but it
probably won't last a long time. Of course, the wind of me making face noises will last a little while.
But I was thinking earlier, as I often do, about words. And one of the astonishing features of words
that's overlooked, and it relates with our own interiority and consciousness, is that definitions
are public. We all mostly know what kind of thing the word tree refers to, or if we're perhaps a
little more aware, what kind of being, or if we're even slightly more aware, what kind of
instance of the universe or time space. But the word tree refers to, we all, we all understand
mostly the definition. But the connotations and associations of words are partly private,
and partly emerge from clade relations, from shared concerns and imperatives
in human cohorts, both local to some particular place, conversation, get together, and also distributed
in clades, who share purposes and concerns and perspectives. But everyone's connotation web,
for any word, will almost always have unique elements, or elements that, elements whose
connection with the definition is unclear, because it doesn't come from logic, rationality,
or even linguistics, it comes from personal experience. For example,
if a fallen log saved my uncle, who was trapped in the rapids of a river,
and in danger of drowning, and I know this, then tree, or log, will have a very different connotation
for me, than if, for example, I'm a woodcutter, a logger, in which case log,
though both people will have the same definition, right, they'll have very different connotations,
so you can see how, in this example, our purposes, and the way we are in the world,
in a given moment or situation, or an ongoing moment or situation, radically transforms
our sense of what it is a word points toward. Now, this is the really interesting thing
that words are like pointers,
and they don't merely point, because when we use words, our imagination is involved.
And so, in a way, language could be understood as a way to collapse the manifold of dreaming,
imagination, and relation, into deliverables, tokens, and the tokens point, if we're using them
that way. Of course, there are other ways to use them. In song, tokens can be evocative, rather than
declarative. I had to pause there a moment to try to understand the communication of one of my
animal companions. It's easy to become confused. Sometimes we have to pause and slow down
in our thinking and habits, in order to understand what another being may be trying to communicate
to us, or with us, about. And if we have a habitual way of relating, it's easy to overlook
the subtle signals, or even the overt signals, of another communications partner,
who, without language, may be trying to encourage us to pay attention to something
that we've overlooked, because of our habitual way of being in the relationship, or a situation.
As humans, we have a
peculiar situation. Now, I think it's common, in a way, to all social animals.
But with humans, because we have the overlay of representational cognition,
and now, in our time, we have representational devices, objects, and machines, and clothing,
and such, cars, and houses, and so on, pictures, and books. But there's a deep conflict for many of us,
and some of us are able to turn this to our advantage, and for others, it's a
catastrophically crippling situation. But there's a deep division, a polarization
between the public and the private, the secular and the cloistered, one might say.
And so, we often wander around thinking very strange thoughts, kind of disembodied thoughts,
about what others might think, or what others might expect, or what we are supposed to do,
how things are supposed to be,
the difference between the world we live in, and the one that we imagine is just, and good, and true,
the idealization of the world, or various idealizations.
It's a good thing I paused.
There's something unusual going on,
and I'm struggling to understand it.
I may not succeed today. It may take more time. Sometimes to learn we have to see a situation
from a new angle that our habits might incline us to overlook.
My animal friend was trying to get me to pay attention.
I think he was aware that I was distracted.
He's a good companion and a brilliant teacher.
He's very kind and patient.
He teaches me things that don't fit in language.
Things that we can only really learn in intimate relation and mutual concern.
For this, I'm deeply grateful.
So, we have this chasm in us, and as I said, some are able to turn this to their clear advantage,
largely, in various ways. Some authentic, some predatory, some opportunistic, some cruel.
But it's a very important aspect of our experience of consciousness and awareness.
Our waking mind is easily captured
by anything that appears as a threat or opportunity in our thought.
And the funny thing about this is that often, when our consciousness is thus captured,
our subtler senses that we need in order to understand, for example,
whether what we're reacting to is largely a figment or projection in our mind
or psyche, or of our psyche, or whether there's really something matching it in the world of our
experience that is worth paying attention to. And so many people that I know are essentially held
hostage by the historically established routes in thought and consciousness, awareness, and concern
that have become a bit like roads or freeways, right? They're no longer natural. They're paved over.
They're the routes we always take if we're driving a car. Of course, we cannot take that route,
or, you know, it's much stranger and perhaps dangerous to take that route on foot.
And there are many things that are fascinating here, but one of them that I want to talk about
briefly anyway is that our awareness emulates the technologies it's exposed to.
Our minds are transformed by the particular and peculiar characteristics
of all of the technologies that we encounter or use, but perhaps more than any other these days,
the computer, in which I include smartphones and televisions and pads and so on.
So that, you know, in the beginning, the operating systems were and the computers themselves were
analogies of mental activity. But as with most of our technologies, they quickly became that
that relationship flipped over and they became the arbiters of the style of our cognition,
that is, they imprinted their functions and characteristics on not just our thought and
awareness and consciousness, but also on our bodies. And we can expect this to continue to go on
for as long as there are modern civilizations like those we are presently subject to.
When I think about these topics, I think about consciousness and awareness and language and
technologies and so on, I like to imagine historical developments over time,
because it looks to me like our species has been traveling on something like a ladder
that leads both downward, decide this is downward, away from deep awareness and relation into
abstraction and upward into insight and developmental,
is the right word. Well, something that can appear as progress, the problem is that
most of the forms of behavior and development that we associate with progress today
are deeply technologically envisioned. And it's very easy for us humans to find
ourselves in a situation where what we call progress is actually regress. So it's very
clear that technological progress has largely represented relational and other kinds of regress
so that the powerful irony is introduced. Most progress isn't, or rather
what appears to be progress in one or two or ten domains can be regress in 50 or 100 or 1000
domains. And since we're only looking at the ten that appear to advance, we miss the 50 that go,
that become, you know, inhibited or retarded
as technologically as technologies are established and popularized and become dominant.
Earlier, I was thinking about whether or not or in what ways our senses
are alone.
So surely you can understand that without a mind,
the sense of touch, feeling something, would have no content.
There would be stimuli but no being experiencing it. This is part of the situation with machines.
The situation with our machines today is quite complex, but effectively there's no being inside
there feeling anything. And this problem is often bandied about in philosophical circles,
but that's not really my intention here. I want to say something simpler.
Right now I am speaking and so my imagination is engaged and it's engaged in a very peculiar way
if we think carefully about it, if we follow it carefully, because I actually have no idea what
I'm about to say next. And what is the faculty with which I determine what I will say and how I
will say it, the tone, the music or the lack thereof. So there's a faculty that's assembling
my utterances. I am assembling my utterances with this faculty
and I know nearly nothing of it.
I have no real idea what it is or how it works. And although we can make models of this and we
can even instantiate these models in machines, it's not the same thing at all because I'm not a model.
I'm not a machine.
So what I was thinking about was a couple of things and one of them is
there's a super sense, the super sense of me or my soul or my interiority
without which the other senses don't work.
There's a purpose of feeling being inside this body or associated with this body wandering
through this place. And that's the thing that alerted me
that something was unusual with my animal companion. Although
my animal companion was very demonstrative, it basically made some gestures
that very clearly
called me out of my distraction just as if someone were tapping me on the shoulder
and saying, wake up, wake up, pay attention. There's something to see here. I need your attention right now.
And so at first I stopped speaking, but then I paused the recording so that I could really pay attention.
And something quite surprising took place, which I'll have to learn more about in coming days.
I depend on living beings and places and the sky and history and the future
to orient my sensing and awareness and concern.
And in fact, in my thought, it's not always this way in my experience, but
in my thought the entire living world
is like, well there's, okay again, we can have the public and private ideas, right? The public idea
could be that the living world, all the beings in it, every single organism
is an extension of my own body, my own being, my own mind. And so really all of these organisms are me.
But we can invert that, too. And I think this is the more likely, this inversion
more likely has precedence or prevalence, which is that I am an embodiment of all of their bodies
and histories and lineages and concerns and dreams and struggles and triumphs and catastrophes, hopes.
And so as I walk in this garden, I walk for all beings in all of time. I am for them.
And most of the senses that we need that are truly important to our humanity
are obliterated by the relatively crude, sometimes mechanical and often clumsy
structured habits and pursuits of my waking consciousness.
And one of the most important faculties we have is one that gets a lot of weird airplane.
And then is also dismissed by much of the thought we would think, you know, we call ration.
And that's the sense of the future.
And we can sense the future, but the faculties we do it with are subtle.
And they're easily compromised or occluded by, again, the rather clumsy and often
tediously linguistic or boorish
character of our habits in waking consciousness, what we are inclined to pay attention to
because historically, that's how we rolled.
Or that's how we learned to proceed.
And I'm sure I often sound like I'm, you know, denigrating the waking mind.
It's not my intention to do so, I think, in its essence.
There's something brilliant and beautiful about it, but in order for it to be
habitable and rich and humane in order for us to actually grow and make progress we can trust
instead of the label of progress that often hides something terrible,
it has to be encompassed and balanced by faculties we have no name for.
The integrative faculties that allow our senses to make sense
of stimuli.
A friend of mine posted an article this morning
about an ancient African tribe she spent time with.
And the article, first of all, she posted some things from her own experience and thought
and then associated the article with these feelings and thoughts.
What she was talking about was something quite important.
This idea of synesthesia,
to feel sounds, to hear colors, to smell shapes and textures, sense mixing.
And I think this is really important and beautiful and profound.
Because, in fact, if you think carefully about it,
without the capacity to feel what green is like, green is kind of empty and meaningless.
And I've known people who were sensory synesthetes,
but the more radical position is that we are all sensory synesthetes.
It's just that something in our development or situation or the strange conflict between
the public and the private, this innate synesthesia has been lost for most of us
and is preserved in a relatively modest cohort of people.
And I think this is really, really important because in dreaming, well not just because, but
in dreaming, all experience has a synesthetic quality that isn't as simply described as I felt the sound.
Because in dreaming, it's not even clear what senses are.
They're not our ordinary senses at all.
There's something quite astonishing going on when we dream that's unlike our models and expectations.
Of course,
here we run into the problem of supposed tos.
