Hello everybody. Welcome.
I'm going out for a walk this evening underneath the very nearly full moon.
From what I've been able to understand, we moderns are a little bit peculiar
in terms of our devotion to exactitude.
And that topic turns out to be useful tonight,
since it's my intention to discuss
problems with abstraction and abstract knowledge
and abstract thinking.
I think this is harmonious with many of my previous videos,
recent videos.
Although in many of those videos, I was discussing problems with the intellect.
Most of those problems arise
when we take the derivations of intellect to be authoritative.
I have a little forest of concerns,
and it's a little bit windy this evening.
So, because I'd like to make a video tonight,
I'm going to risk a little bit of wind noise
and possibly some hood noise,
since my mic is inside my hood.
Earlier today,
I was listening to a podcast on the Mandukya Upanishad.
I can't recall the name of the Swami who was lecturing,
but I find his lectures enjoyable and intelligent and enlightening.
And I think that if he and I got to have some conversations, it would be a lot of fun.
And we could learn a lot together.
But it's also fun to just listen to him.
In the city,
where I am at the moment,
there's a lot of events per moment going on,
particularly when I'm on a busy street,
as I am now.
Though even on a busy street,
there are intervals of calm.
I often notice living in the city,
particularly if I'm in my room,
that the pace of noise
undergoes transformations throughout the day,
increasing and departing a bit like waves on the ocean.
But I've also noticed that
throughout the day,
if one's awareness is keen,
it becomes apparent that there are
little spans
of something approaching silence.
And silence is extremely important for us,
for our health and well-being,
in the same way that darkness is extremely important for our health and well-being.
And for we who live in cities,
these are extremely rare.
Far less common now that where I live,
LED streetlights have been introduced.
And they are terrifyingly bright.
Which is something I find,
both oppressive
and intrusive and uncomfortable.
A more significant problem
with many of these lights
is they produce a very disturbing kind of shadow.
As they shine through the lights of trees
onto the sidewalk,
it's a sort of digitized shadow.
And instead of producing a single shadow,
like the lights that I'm used to,
produces multiple versions of the same shadow
in a pattern I also find quite disturbing.
I'm walking up some hills,
so I'm going to be huffing and puffing a bit.
All of us have various concerns
with what is done and not done in our societies,
what is taken into consideration
or ignored.
And in the street lamp problem,
a lot of important things were ignored
and many other important things weren't taken into consideration.
But when we ask who did the ignoring,
we face a more complicated problem
because the who in this question
is the whole.
It's an abstraction.
There wasn't a person
really involved in making these decisions,
though humans proposed and planned,
analyzed and paid for them.
What's making these decisions isn't a being.
It's something that more closely resembles
a demon or a daemon process.
As I've discussed in recent recordings,
what we think of as our societies
are really just a tangled mess
of largely antiquated,
bizarre, opportunistic
and ignorant processes.
And some people think when they say the word
the government,
they seem to think they're referring to people.
And certainly,
the government is peopled by humans.
But the processes that drive those humans aren't human
and the structure within which those people function
is not only inhuman and dehumanizing,
it's aggressively malignant.
We live in a world where brighter is better
and that's dangerous for animals and organisms like us
because certain kinds of light harm us
and some of those kinds of light harm us severely.
And some of the things we do with light,
using a universal we here, that's not real,
some of the things that are done
by our societies and their sub-functions with light
are terrifyingly wrong
and represent severe injustices.
I'm a person who enjoys walking in darkness
and when one walks in darkness,
over a period of about 20 minutes,
our eyes adjust.
And so,
the precedence in our vision switches from the foveal to the peripheral
and unless it's entirely pitch black,
we can see.
Not as good as an owl or a cat
or perhaps a mouse or a bat,
but what is meant by vision in bats is a rather complicated thing.
But
another machine that's undergone a similar transformation
relatively recently is the automobile
and the lights on automobiles these days are terrifically blinding
to anyone they're shining on,
including drivers in the other lane.
This makes it both dangerous and painful
for people who are older,
whose vision is more severely affected by that brightness
and who are more easily blinded.
But there's a different kind of vision problem.
A vision problem in our thinking
where the extreme apparent brightness
of abstractions
overwhelms the intelligences
that might otherwise be informed by them,
replacing insight with ignorance
understanding with declarations
and knowledge with abstractions.
Now, whatever is meant by knowledge must be a very complex thing
and so it is true with seeing and intelligence
and each of these simple words
that I've chosen
are the words
that I've chosen to use as pointers towards something
and it would be didactic
if I were to too carefully define them.
Nonetheless,
it falls on me to
take some time
and shed
the light of understanding
on some of these terms.
Each of which I think of as
having many features and changing
the meaning of which change under
different circumstances
and in different conversations
or listeners or people.
The onset of the human capacity
to introduce to awareness
probabilistic thought,
statistical thought,
like many of our modern
quote-unquote accomplishments
brought with it an unexpected zoo
of monsters.
In science,
for example,
there's a principle that's often referred to
as objectivity.
Often this comes down
to
a rather clumsy mode
of materialist
ontology and epistemology,
ontology being
the philosophical
concern with identity,
what things are
and epistemology being
the philosophical concern with how things are
and how we know what things are
or how we know other things
and whether or not
our knowledge is justified, true, etc.
And as these features were introduced
to human cognition
and of course they're not brand new,
humans have probably been doing something
that we refer to as playing games of chance
for thousands of years.
But it was long after the introduction
of such games
that the capacity to think about them
systematically arose
with the onset
of mathematical advancement
