And so the animals were mocking him.
They're telling me he's just naked.
He doesn't have anything.
Why is he even here?
I don't understand it, you know, and he got mad.
And he's saying this song, which I know.
And then he, and then he left the lodge.
His wife was still there and she hung out.
I don't know why she didn't leave, but that's her.
Anyway, he left.
And the song that he's saying brought on a deluge rainstorm so heavy that the lake
that they were camped next to the waters were rising and threatening to flood out
the ceremony for the rest of the night, the whole, like, you know, the whole tree.
And so the animals begged the salamander's wife to bring him back and stop the rain.
And she did.
And then with another song.
Which I know.
Those were his contributions to the bundle, those songs.
And then right after him.
Ironically.
The frog that the chorus from stood up to contribute to the bundle.
And the Nam ski.
The tiger salamander who just been mocked.
Said the same criticisms to the frog.
The fuck are you doing here?
You don't got any, anything to give to this bundle.
You don't even, you're just naked.
You don't, you don't got anything to offer.
And he, and he pushed him.
He pushed him on his chest.
And the, the frog fell down on his back.
And he fell down.
And he, and he had his hands up like this.
By his head.
With four fingers on one side and three on the other.
And he, he told the animals. Yeah.
He told them.
Seven.
I'm giving seven winter moons.
To the humans during which all of your hides.
All of your, all of your beautiful robes are going to be so thick.
So lovely.
The humans are going to be hunting you and wanting to kill you.
Kind of a curse.
Because let me be clear about what he's saying. He's saying, um,
It was winter.
All of you people who have robes,
your robes are going to be so thick and warm that the humans will
hunt you for those robes.
Yep.
So what he's giving to the humans is the capacity to wear the robes
of the other animals in a way.
Yeah. Well, he's, he's giving them a very long winter.
Oh yeah.
But he's given everybody a long winter.
I see.
And the frog is the one that hops between the seasons.
You know, when it comes to the moons, there's a,
there's a black foot moon called Metsi Kapisaki,
some, the frog moon.
And that's the one that it's either a winter or summer moon,
depending on whether it's a leap year and it will leap into the
summer if it's a, if it's a leap year, the leap year,
the leap, the extra moon, the 13 moon always comes in the winter.
As far as I've come to know.
Between two specific other moons.
What's that?
Between two specific other moons.
Yes. Well, the frog is always where, where he is.
He's between, yeah.
It's between Saaki, some, the duck moon.
And Apiskitsa, the flower moon.
Ah.
That's where the frog will be.
That's when the frogs mate.
A lot of the, you know,
all of the stuff around the beaver bundle has to do with the
mating time.
A lot of it. Yeah.
Yeah. That's it. That's the recreation. Yeah.
Okay. I have a question.
Yep.
What did the humans give?
The humans gave a scalp.
You want to hear the human story? Yes, please.
All right.
Because all of the animals,
they're giving a whole library to the humans.
Yeah.
Making a treaty with them.
What do the humans contribute? And what is the agreement?
This is what I want.
Okay.
And we'll get back to match, but this stuff's important.
Yep.
There are.
Two different.
Human contributions into the beaver bundle.
Both of them are scalps.
One of them comes from the.
Scabby round robe story.
But the scalp is not really the important thing that comes from
that story. So I'm not going to tell that story,
even though that's one of the scalps that you'll find in the beaver
bundle and some other stuff from scabby round robe as well.
This is, this is another whole like.
Another, a big story that happened.
That brought a whole bunch of new things into the beaver bundle.
There's several in, you know,
you can imagine thousands of years of history,
how many times your main corpus has to change and have, you know,
resolution.
There are still core moments.
There are like heartbeat over those thousand years where there's
something very core that is transferred.
Yeah.
Or included.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So a big woman him.
Scabby round robe is one of these stories that some of that stuff
comes from.
So some beaver bundles have scalps in them associated with scabby
round robe.
There's a, there's a other scalp in there.
In some of the bundles.
And, and Mahoney in my bundle has this scalp.
And it comes from a story about a pistol book.
How old child.
Who was a big gunny.
One of the Blackfoot tribes is called be gunny.
That was his tribe.
He had this dream.
This is way, way back.
You know,
I don't even want to try to imagine what, how many years ago or
whatever.
But he had a dream.
That him and his.
His, you know, close brothers and cousins and stuff.
Went and really.
Super successfully raided.
Their southern neighbor.
The petiques in that ones.
The snake people.
The show show me.
And so.
He convinced his brothers and cousins, let's do this.
Let's go down there.
I know it's going to be like we're going to, we're going to come home
so rich.
We're going to steal all their, all their stuff where you get all
these, you know,
Vowlers and stuff.
Let's go do this.
So they all start following him.
They pack up.
And they're going on a, on a, on a multi day.
Mission to go down there and try to actualize this dream.
But.
Every time they sleep and they travel mostly at night.
Hey.
When they're going on these raids, they travel at night and they
sleep in the day in the, in the, like.
Usually in the, in the thickets.
You know, find some coolly with.
Like really close.
Choke cherries are down by the river.
With willow, close willow and stuff.
And you, and you just sleep during the day and keep cover and
then travel by night.
Make your way to the enemy.
And then.
Or to, I don't know, it's not even enemy in black foot.
It's more like opponent.
Cause all like the language is all in gaming.
And there was a system.
There was a, there was a system, a point system.
Which I don't, I don't have all in my head.
But killing people was low on the point system.
Yeah.
You know, high on the point system is taking away.
You know, vital resources.
You know, take away.
Namah gun is what they call a coup in black foot,
but that's literally acquiring a gun.
Yeah.
Taking their, taking their, their, uh, what, you know,
whatever that is, whether it was a bow before and whatever,
taking their weapon, you know, taking their stuff that they
used to, um, to retaliate against you and to hunt.
Like it's all, like back then it's all very utilitarian too.
You know, because the more, you know,
the more resources he got, um, the,
the bigger guy you were, like,
especially once the horses came in, hey,
horses really changed everything.
Um, I think this story is like way pre-horse though.
It's certainly pre-gun by a long shot.
Yeah.
