There was a concern about and it's an important concern that is easy to overlook because the way we live today
Yeah, right. It's a very important concern
I'm with you. Yeah
Yeah, there was a concern about the camera. They were there were parts of the day where people broke down. They were crying I
Ended up consoling
The young woman
and
We started getting along better through that day
By the end of the day we were on a plane trip to New York
With our Smithsonian notes in hand and
And me and her were getting along really well
We were going to stay in
The what are this place that they had booked us like
Somebody in tribal government had booked us this ratty-ass place in New York City
They didn't know what they were doing, you know
And the place that they booked us we went to we cabbed to
and it was just
like
Like gross and and it was like
Squalor, yeah
Shared, you know shared bedroom shared washroom like shared shared washrooms between like
four people in two bedrooms kind of things and me and this girl were like, oh, we'll stay together and
We we ended up like choosing to stay in a room, but then oh
Francis first charger was there. Hmm. Yeah. Now. I remember he was there, too. And
He was like he was like, no, we're not staying in this place, right?
He got he got a hold of us. He's like now we're not staying here. We're getting out of here
We we're gonna have a meeting with Sumitomo corporation
Downtown
Tomorrow, but they have put us they have they have set us up with rooms in Penn Station
They were penn Pennsylvania Hotel, which is right above Penn Station
They're expensive, but you know, we just got to make it work, right?
so we taxied over to Pennsylvania Hotel and then
Again like me and Margaret were like, oh, we'll just we'll just room together and split the cost
and if I remember Frank like intervening and being like
Like hey, I can I can give you money for another room
extra room we're like, no, we'll just make it work, you know, and
And so
We ended up we ended up rooming together in in Pennsylvania Hotel. We stayed there. I think in New York. We were there
Three nights
maybe four nights
three or four nights, so we were in the in the American Museum of Natural History as well as
the
The high foundation
Which was it was down on Battery Park like where you can see like the Statue of Liberty and that kind of thing
There was a big museum for American Indians kind of called the high foundation
And then that was moved all that all that collection. Well, the the storage for that was in Brooklyn
but
They moved all that collection eventually to Washington DC
To start the National Museum of the American Indian
But back then in 1996 it was still in New York. That's where we visited it first
Hey
So we were there three or four days and
We saw a lot of things and in terms of my life the things that were pretty momentous in New York was
Alan both Alan and Martin
Um
Confronted me one day and told me
You know you're working with us on
These bringing these bundles home and
You should probably get more involved in our ceremonies so you learn more about them and
so
Both of them invited me to their ceremonies
Alan invited me to his
Think it was he's he had a thunder pipe still at the time he had the beaver bundle too now, but it was new to him
I didn't get to see his beaver bundle quite yet. I
think he invited me to his thunder pipe and Martin too and
And
And so
You know I just I don't know I continued the tour but for me
I think the biggest the most momentous thing was was probably just those invites. Hey
You know
And then
And then how did those ceremonies take place that they invited you to
Now that would have been in the summer of they've probably been June ish
In
1996
What I mean is did they take place after you went home?
Home
Back to oh, right. You're actually living on East Coast, aren't you?
Yeah, I was I was living in Boston at the time. Yeah, yeah, of course. Yeah, so where did the ceremonies take place?
in Alberta
When later in June of 1996 and how long after the trip?
Really shortly like weeks after I see okay
I'm just trying to hold the timeline in my head. Yeah. No, it was very it was very quick
Like I did the first repatriation in in May they came
and then by June I was I was with them on this tour and
By the end of the month I was in ceremony in Alberta
And and and and Alberta
Yeah, I was staying well, I was yeah visiting yeah
Yeah, okay. Um, yeah, I was by by June. I was I was there for Martin
By end of June. I was there for Martin and Alan's ceremonies
and then I
Was invited back by Mart like that trip that I came out. I
Think I stayed a couple of weeks and
I didn't even book anywhere to come like anywhere to stay or anything
I just I just came and
Alan set up a tee before me. I stayed a couple of days at Alan's place
and then
Martin set up a tee before me and I was gonna be working like entering my stuff from my database into the
blood tribes
system and
So that was closer to Martin's and so I started staying at Martin's and he said
And you spent any time in a teepee before? No, that's what I thought
Yeah, I lived in a teepee for those two weeks
First to Alan's and then at Martin's
and then
Martin inviting me back for
Go-karts in the Sundance
That summer so I came back and I was back
probably another
couple two three weeks
And so I got to experience my first Sundance and while I was there
Well that wasn't even the Sundance trip, I'm sorry
That was that was the first trip when I came to the Thunderpipes
In in the end of June
There was a day when I was working at blood
At the at the shot both sides building and standoff at the at the blood tribe headquarters
entering my stuff in their database and
Frank came to the building and he asked if he could take me to lunch in Fort McLeod
and
So I told him yeah, so I jumped in his truck
And he took me to lunch in Fort McLeod, but the whole thing was
He was wanting to go after the Thunderpipe that we had seen in the Smithsonian
in Washington, DC and
And
He wanted to go in after that as a vow to try to like he had crippling arthritis like Mahoney, you know
he wanted to go after it to like try to help his arthritis and
He wanted to go after it different he said I don't want to use that law
Said I want to use transfer
Hmm
Say I believe that the elders
In the past that gave the bundles to the museums
did so to
Ensure that the bundles would be here, you know for for other generations to use
but when they
When they did it
You know
However, like there's like there's some stuff that we have documented where they actually we know they transferred, you know
To see in person
But there's other cases where it was just straight out bought and
Franky Frank was like however, however the Smithsonian got to this bundle
Um
Because we didn't really know hey with that one he's like however they got to this bundle he's like
I still like I still consider the Smithsonian the current caretaker owner
And I want to approach them like from my way
with with our kind of respect I
Want them to transfer to me
and
Of course, they don't know the ceremony. I'll have an elder there to do the transfer
But I want their representatives there to transfer to me. Yes, and
I'm gonna pay them like I would pay for a transfer of this bundle and
And they know what the purpose is and I'm gonna explain to them how this bundle came about
How transfer works? You're gonna do that for me. You're gonna write that for me
And so
That was my next mission was to write Frank's repatriation
Which was not like no other repatriation
It was a it was a transfer request
like we wrote it
Like as if I'm going
Because with those particular bundles
Even you don't go and ask for it yourself. You have a mediator go for you
And we did it just like that
And the Smithsonian said that was the best repatriation request they'd ever received
And he still we
Made the bundle come home, you know, wow
Yeah
But it didn't come home before I came back for the Sundance I
Was back for the Sundance before that bundle came home. So I was there for those couple of
pipe ceremonies and then
Martin asked me to come back for the Sundance, which was
Mind-blowing because you know if you're from the modern world
Like I came in
I flew into Great Falls and he picked me up there and even coming from you know, then the East Coast
The city
When you fly into Great Falls all you hear is the wind and it's so
Different this is it's such a different kind of quiet that you don't know and
Then Martin drove me, you know up in
Talberda picked me up in Great Falls drove me up
Into a giant camp and it was nighttime when we got in a
Giant camp of you know fire glowing tepees
like
Like I
Don't know like, you know like you like he was like he was like taking a time
machine or something
like people were riding horses around camp and
Singing and
It's crazy so it's so different, you know
And
Yeah, so I had the Sundance
Went to the spend time at the Sundance
By that time I was I was still kind of
Messing around with that crappier wolf girl. Hmm, but I was also kind of
Checking out Martin's daughter
and
I started talking to her a little one of Martin's daughters and
And then I went back to Boston again
What did I work on at that point
What was the next repatriation I think that's I think that's when the hoopa contacted me
And wanted me to
Started talking to me about negotiating with them for Harvard
Because they had been they the hoopa from California had been really trying to get
