I mean, I can tell you what the scientists think.
I don't know what if they're right.
Did I make a guess?
This before there are horses, right?
Oh, 5,000 to 8,000 years ago.
That's what I was looking for.
Yeah, at least.
At least to have domesticated dogs.
Here.
And not only that, but like, I think it's even longer than that, because here you have like Eniskim at sites, which are, which are, which are buffalo stones.
They're like these fossils that look like buffaloes, but they, they're part of a ceremony that is, that became part of the beaver bundle after the beaver bundle already existed.
And those things are found, you know, those Eniskim are found at bison sites here in Alberta going back like nine, 10,000 years.
So I think it's all the beaver bundles even older than that.
Like, you know, very, very old.
It's the first medicine bundle in the Blackfoot tradition.
I know it like nobody knows a lot of people out there don't know what medicine bundles are, whatever, but you know, in this case, without going through the whole, the whole origin of that, it's really a bunch of skins from animals who gave knowledge to humans in a treaty agreement situation.
Yeah, this is the humans and the animals coming together in relation.
Yeah, under the auspices of an agreement that they have together that they form together and the bundles the embodiment of those agreements if I'm understanding something.
Yep.
Okay.
Yeah. And so, you know, that bundle is very fluid.
Um, new, like animals bring new things in animals and plants, bring new things into the bundles through humans.
And then humans have experiences that the beaver bundles end up kind of like,
like say somebody has has an experience where they themselves are given some kind of very important knowledge
from an animal, like in a spiritual way, like they have a dream about it, and it's vivid and the animal tells them in their head, talking to, you know, like,
and a beaver bundle owner might look at that person and watch them for a little bit and see what happens with that.
And if it seems to be that they that they think that their experience was very valid, they got something beneficial that should, you know, that the people should adopt.
Then the beaver man, woman might go to that person and and ask to kind of buy that gift into the bundle.
And so the beaver bundles constantly absorbing things and then and then putting things out too.
So if they have somebody has that new experience, say they have experience where,
you know, like what has happened, the thunder, you know, the fun, the thunder came in conflict with people and the humans relationships with animals is what kind of saved them from that conflict.
The animals dealt with the thunder on behalf of the people, the crows in particular,
and the thunder was made to kind of make amends to the people for for something it had, you know, it had done.
So it was giving the people a bundle that would protect them from it, you know, not only thunder, but it's close associates, which included bears.
And in order for that person's experience to be legitimated and brought kind of into the Orthodox tradition so that the bundle was like validated by the community, the beaver bundle would feed it and give some things from the beaver bundle into that bundle
to validate it.
So beaver bundles kind of the hub, hey,
you know, because the original, what matters is the treaty between the living beings here. That is the beaver bundle.
And also it's a kind of library of transfers.
Yeah, totally.
Transfer meaning when something profoundly sacred powerful or meaningful is given out or brought in.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's a ceremonial process to the transfer of course.
Yeah.
Okay, let me ask you to pause for right here. Can you hold your thought.
I will.
The reason is the recording is about to end so I have to restart it to continue recording.
Cool. So hold your thought and we'll be right back.
All right, so I just want to clarify a few things before we continue. We're going to go to the bookmark of the woman in San Francisco.
Right.
And we're going to say again.
Matt Walters.
We're still talking a little bit about the beaver bundle and I want to just hear from you.
What is the meaning of a transfer we've said a little bit about what the beaver bundle is explain if you will a little bit about transfer.
Well, you know, transfer is is being given a way of doing something.
If it's a major transfer.
A lot of times it's being given a new way of life.
When it's a beaver bundle transfer, that's what it is. Hey, it's being given a whole new way of life and a new role. It's a, it's a
What do you call it?
It's a, it can be a rite of passage. It can be as simple as somebody teaching you how to make a sandwich.
It can be as complicated as, you know, someone training you in something extremely specialized that maybe two or three people on the face of the earth know about, you know,
all that stuff can be transfer, you know, when it when it comes to the black foot way of life and stuff.
You really need to be exposed to those bundles in order to get the core philosophies.
You don't have to take care of a bundle necessarily.
Just, you know, be in the community and exposed to them and such to get some of those core philosophies and if you from, you know, if you don't do that you can be black foot and not be black foot almost.
You know, you can, you can, you can, you can be here and grow up here and well not really everybody here is exposed to the bundles we all we all got that core core shit but if you if you never, if you never lived here and been exposed to that then
you know, it's, it's, you know, you don't got the culture, you don't got it, right. It's just it's, it's in, it's in those bundles. It's not a religious thing so much.
It's cultural but it has these kind of religious underpins, you know, because you can connect all of these things to these bundles, these bundles have these origins that are, you know, very like legendary origins.
Mythological things.
You know, animals and people sitting down and making treaties and shit, you know, yes. Yeah.
I want to get back to Harvard but absolutely.
I just want to say I don't want to, I don't want to leave, I don't want to leave questions unanswered. Do you have a couple things and feel free to correct me because you know, it's an outsider.
Right.
But the bundle seems to me to be something that we don't really have in the West, an idea of.
It's like a library of histories and relationships and traditions that is itself alive.
Yeah, it's a living thing.
This is what I want to be really clear about.
Yeah, the bundles are living being and when you're taking care of it, that's a living being that you're taking care of.
Yes.
And you have to nurture it.
And you have to tend to like, you know,
everything like all the kind of crazy shit that you would with any human being, living being.
It is not, we don't have a category for this in English. There's no category for this.
Only the category of living being, but never we would think in English that something that we would be likely to view as an object would be a living being.
Yeah, and there's like, we're going to get into some of that too.
When we talk about Harvard.
Okay.
I just wanted to just take a moment and clarify a few of those unusual things because without understanding this, you're not going to really have any hope of even conceptualizing what a bundle is.
No, well, you know, like a lot of people have asked me to try to explain concisely what the beaver bundle or any bundle is.
It's really difficult with a beaver bundle.
The most concise explanation that I have is that it is the living embodiment of a treaty between the humans and the animals.
It is tangibly a role of mostly animal skins and other artifacts that have come into that bundle.
Paint, tobacco, tobacco seeds, stick calendars.
With the beaver bundle, there's a lot of things wrapped in it, but it's mostly animal skins.
And the ceremony is a reenactment of the treaty.
And, but, you know, interestingly, the dances follow a progression like an annual phenological progression of animal mating.
So that the dances are mostly animal dances.
Well, they're all animal dances, but they follow a sequence through the season that you're speaking toward.
Whenever you're in Blackfoot ceremony, you're always speaking toward whatever's happening and going to happen in the like very near future.
And that's, you know, that's just a renewal of the treaty every time that goes on.
So the beaver bundle does this twice a year at the end of summer and at the end of winter.
There's just the two seasons really formally recognized and there's words for that transition.
They go and go between them like fall and spring and fall, but they're not really seasons per se, you know, their transition points between summer and winter.
Between time.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, it's, it's just the transition.
There's not even, there's not even a between time.
There's not a gap.
There's summer and then winter boom, boom.
It feels like that here too.
Like when he thought story comes, you know, the cold arrives.
That's what it's literally called, and it does boom, and it's here.
You're you were in summer last week.
You were wearing shorts and t-shirt.
And now you got snow and it's sub zero.
You know, and then
associated with each of the
beings or elements in the beaver bundle. There are songs.
Yeah.
Well, that's the thing like each of the animals.
Well, the beaver bundle is the thing.
Nobody knows how many songs are in the beaver bundle.
Hundreds and hundreds have come and gone.
But there is a core group of songs from the, from the original
treaty and some of the major things that have happened.
That all of the beaver bundles have kind of like.
Like, because there's more than one beaver bundle at this point.
Right.
There was, there was originally the one and an origin story to that.
And then other people had experiences where they were told to create beaver
bundles and such.
But they had to do it through the original.
Right.
So it's all got the original link to it.
Right.
It's all got something tangibly, like physically from the original.
I want to imagine the situation where, for example, you have a fire.
Yeah.
And the fire has been started from a pole from a previous fire.
Yeah.
And it goes all the way back to the first fire.
Yeah.
And so this fire right in front of you has the first fire in it.
Yep.
By analogy.
Exactly.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Precisely.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's good.
Yeah.
Because things, things wear out in the bundles, like physical things.
Of course.
You have to replace them.
We're talking 10,000 years plus maybe, you know.
Yeah.
You have to replace things when they wear out.
But it's like the fire, like you say, hey, it's the same fire.
You know, you get after, you have to feed more wood in that fucking fire.
Right.
Yes.
Yeah.
So.
So yeah, the beaver bundle.
The animals.
All gave their robes.
Which is their, which is a symbol of protection.
Right.
Their robes.
What they, what they use to protect camouflage themselves, all that stuff.
Think about that.
You know, that's what they, they gave that.
And then they sing a song or many songs.
And in each of those songs were other things like how they get their medicines, how they
hunt their foods, how they make their homes, how they live with their spouses, how they
raise their children, like all of these kinds of things.
When, when human beings, like in this story of the, of the beaver bundle origin, the animals
looked at the human beings as the most recent arrival, basically.
Like a very recent arrival and ill equipped, ill adapted.
We can't run fast.
We can't swim very well.
We can can't climb trees very well.
We can't fly at all.
You know, we're weak.
We're soft.
We're slow.
We don't have a road.
We don't have a road.
We don't really have no road.
They could have called us like no road.
Okay, but all right.
In the origin story of the beaver bundle, there's something about not having a rope.
Because there's a point where not ski, who's the tiger salamander, steps up to
the bundle and right away, the other animals start mocking him because he doesn't have a
rope to give.
He's not given anything physical into the bundle.
There's no rope.
You don't got no fur, no feathers, no nothing.
