So, I'm Darren Stevenson.
I'm here with my dear friend, Ryan Furstiver, Nitsutapi, man.
And we're having some discussions about early attempts to repatriate cultural material.
Things that have been essentially stolen under the idea that these are natural history items and then ensconced in museums.
So, Ryan, please start wherever you want. We could go back to the meteorite situation if you're willing and keep a book.
I'll talk about the meteorite, but maybe I just want to tell a Harvard story.
Okay, great.
Because that's where we were. We can return to New York in the history when we get there.
And I know for my camera thing, I'm going to fuck this all up, but you're just going to have to deal with that.
All right, so in 1993, I started working with the, I've been in 1994, I started working with the Blackfit Tribal Business Council in Browning, Montana.
I was a student in Boston at the time. I have Blackfit heritage and I was studying, studying all things Blackfoot while I was in school.
And one of the things that was going on at the time, I think it was 1993, there was a, in the US, they had proposed this Land Consolidation Act for the tribes.
And what they were thinking was, you know, when the reservations were first established in the states, each male had a household was given so many acres of land proportioned out to, you know, I think it was like 214 acres or something.
But it's since split up, split up, split up through the generations so that now, you know, somebody coming in might only have an acre of land if that, you know, and so it's hard to make money off of that land when you don't have much of it.
And so the government was proposing, well, let's re-consolidate those original tracks and then have the families that live on that space who are obviously, you know, closely related to the original title owner, have them come up with some kind of business plan to work that land.
And then support them to do that. So this was the 1993 Land Consolidation Act. And I thought it sounded really fishy, you know, because I'd like, what? You got to take those original land tracks back into trust.
And then these guys got to like figure out a business plan. This is a First Nations reserve. What are you thinking, right? Like, what's up here? This sounds fishy. And a lot of people in Indian country were thinking that at the time, you know.
And so I looked into it and because I was going to school in Boston, I was fortunate to have access to Federal Reserve libraries.
And so I could go look up the communications, the transcripts of communications between the Bureau of Land Management and the Bureau of Indian Affairs and, you know, the Senate and the Bureau of Indian Affairs, everybody that was involved in bringing this act to Congress and having it passed.
I could see every step of the way and their plans. I got their plans on paper and everything. And it was wicked, dude. They had five tribes that they were set up to start this Land Consolidation Act on.
And the Blackfeet Reservation in Montana was one of them. And the Bureau of Land Management had mapped out where all of the important subsurface resources were.
Of course.
And so those were the places where they were going to do the experiment, take it into trust.
And their whole plan was to mine that shit while they had it in trust.
And it would be a long time because it's hard to get those families to work together, you know, on those original land trusts that have been broken up over 100 years now, you know.
And so I brought all of the paperwork to Maj. Walters, who was on the Blackfeet Tribal Council at the time, an Earl old person who was the chair.
He's the longest, you know, he was used to, he is the chief of the Blackfeet in Montana.
He's passed now. He just passed the other year. But for most of my life, he was the chief of the Blackfeet in Montana.
And he always had, I always had his blessings with the shit I was doing. But I brought this stuff to them.
They went to Washington D.C. with it and shut it down.
Okay. And that kind of gave me an inroads with tribal government down there.
Like I didn't do it on purpose to like, you know, create any inroads or anything like that.
But that's what it gave me some relationships through doing that research that I just thought needed to be done.
Because I thought the Sutton bullshit's going on here, you know, and it sure was.
Yeah, it's like a re-colonization.
Yeah. Yeah. Well, the process still continues today.
Of course.
Yeah.
And by the way, back then, your name was Ryan Heavyhead.
Yeah.
Well, no, it was Ryan Hancock.
Ah.
That was even before.
Okay.
Yeah, my name was Ryan Hancock.
And so.
Anyway, I helped them stop that Land Consolidation Act from being instituted.
And basically, you know, mine in the shit out of the reserves.
And then I was invited to some things in the, in the subsequent summer season in Montana that gave me access to black foot art and ceremony.
And I wanted to know more once I once I started, you know, experiencing and seeing that I wanted to know more about it.
So I was going into my last year of undergraduate studies in Boston and I proposed to my mentor there that I do some kind of honors thesis regarding black foot art.
And he gave me the summer to think about what I want to do.
And I never came up with anything, you know, very interesting when I came back to him at the end of the summer.
You know, I had my experiences.
Up here to talk about, but I hadn't reviewed any literature done, you know, I didn't have a scholarly question at all.
I just wanted to know more about black foot art.
My whole interest in getting into anthropology and native studies to begin with was just an identity quest, you know.
So for me, it was just like, learn more, learn more.
So I had seen some things I wanted to learn more.
And he gave me a stack of books when I came back at the end of summer with no good question.
He gave me a stack of books and he says, go away for three weeks and you read these.
You have to read them all and you have to come here and be prepared to talk about them.
And then we'll formulate some kind of question, right?
Together.
So I went away and a lot of these books that he gave me were books that were problematizing.
Museum and academies work with Indigenous art all together.
And in there was included a little like privately published thing where somebody had gone and surveyed all of the museums in England, Scotland and the United States.
And put together like an inventory of all of the California Indian items in those museums.
Just as a resource for the tribes, basically.
So I went to the museum.
I went to the museum.
I went to the museum.
I went to the museum.
I went to the museum.
I went to the museum.
I went to the museum.
I went to the museum.
Just as a resource for the tribes, basically.
It was called Times Flotsam.
I even forget the author's name, but it's called Times Flotsam.
And it was just this inventory of European museum stuff.
And when I like, I read a lot of good stuff in those books he gave me.
But when I seen that little thing, I was like, oh, there's something I can do.
It's right back to that.
Just like I had just done with the land consolidation.
Here's something I can contribute.
What if I found out where all the black foot stuff is?
And I did up an inventory and I give it to the tribe.
Right.
This was the idea that I got out of his stack of stuff.
And I ended up getting a little grant through my university to carry out that research.
I went to try to find out, like, okay, where do you find out where the museums are that have black foot material culture?
If you wanted to look for black foot material culture in the world, in its museums,
what resource would you turn to to tell you where to go?
Right.
Nothing.
There were these like, there's these like phone book sized nation by nation museum guides
that have these listings that the best you get is like native North American,
you know, native North American culture, native North American, you know, whatever, anthropology or ethnology or whatever.
Right.
You don't get tribe by tribe.
And so what I had to do is go through all of those world country guides,
find the places that had native North American collections, copy their addresses and all that shit,
and then send them a letter, every one of them.
So I sent over 4,000 letters.
What?
Yeah.
I had, I had a little grant from my, from my, my, because I was doing an honors thesis.
I had wicked like, you know, they were going to support me, whatever.
But they had a little small, like undergraduate honors thesis.
It was like, I don't know, a thousand bucks or something, but bottle of stamps.
And I sent out 4,000 letters.
I bought a post office box in Boston.
And I collect, and I got Earl old person to write me a letter from Montana from the, from the Blackfeet tribe.
He's the chief saying, I have his blessings.
Please give this guy our inventory of what's in your museum.
And I start getting dump loads of mail from all around the world, you know.
And then it was interesting because some places that you wouldn't think would respond to you responded.
Like for instance, the Vatican, they gave me a really good response.
They sent me photographs of everything that they have, along with the, you know, descriptions and accessions information.
And they were like, they were very clean and, you know, this is it, right?
This is what we got.
But then there were museums like, like Harvard Peabody Museum, for instance, which was, you know, like within walking distance across the river from where I lived in Brookline.
And they didn't send me anything.
And, you know, for months, I didn't, I didn't get any response from them.
And I'm like, they're one of the major North American museums for, for indigenous collections.
Like why, why haven't they given me a response?
And so one day I decided to do like a strategic spy mission and go to the museum and see what they had on the map.
So I went over there, walked through their exhibit and I've seen for blackfoot material, they had a women's society headdress.
It's like, it's like a buffalo headdress with horns.
They had yellow kidney.
He was a beaver man from Montana in the turn of the century.
They had yellow kidneys, scalp lock suit.
Like his buckskin suit with the scalp locks from the Scarface story.
They had a couple of horn spoons and a pair of moccasins on display.
As well.
And so I went home and I called them up the next day.
And I said, hey, you know, I'm a researcher from University of Massachusetts.
And I've, I sent you guys a letter a couple of months back.
I haven't had any response asking for your inventory of blackfoot materials as part of a project.
That I'm doing with the black feet nation from Montana.
And I, you know, I'm just wondering when you guys are going to respond.
And then they got, they said, okay, hold on the line.
They got, they got whoever need to talk to me.
One of their curators came back.
I think her name was Susan if I remember right.
But anyway, I'll just call her Susan.
So Susan came back and said, came on the phone and said, well,
we didn't respond to you because we really don't have anything of significance at the P body.
That's black foot.
I mean, we have a pair of moccasins and a couple of horn spoons.
And I said, that's funny because I was in your museum just yesterday.
Looking through what you have on exhibit.
And I've seen that there's a women's society headdress there.
And you have yellow kidneys scalp lock suit that's considered a sacred bundle.
And I would like to come make an appointment to come to your museum and look at your other accessions information and find out what else you have that's black foot in your story.
And so she went away for a couple of minutes from the phone, Susan, and then came back and said, well, it takes, you know, like here at Harvard, you have to schedule months in advance to get to come and do that kind of research.
And so, you know, if you want to do that.
And I say, yeah, I'm here.
So schedule it, you know, put it on the calendar.
She went away for about three more minutes, came back on the phone and said, can you come in next week?
Well, she was just bluffing me, dude.
It's all a fucking bluff.
So anyway, she schedules me to come in there the next week and I go in and I've just got, you know, a notebook and shit.
Like, this is like reading the internet and shit really, you know, like going on, I don't know, we just barely.
And so anyway, I went in and I went through, you know, their files.
Susan met me in their accessions department and gave me this paper.
And which had a list of all their Blackfoot items.
They'd finally put together a list for me.
And at the very top of that paper was human remains, which there was a skull there.
And then right underneath that, the next item on the list was a beaver bundle.
And then went down from there.
There were several sacred items, bundles, and then, you know, a lot of other things that the collection was significant.
So I told her, well, I'd like to look at the accessions files on this beaver bundle first thing, you know.
And so she gave me that and I started taking all the notes.
They got that bundle for like 300 bucks or something, you know, from the, they got it from, what is it then?
Denver Art Museum, you know, there was a trade that went on and Denver Art Museum got from Madge Walters.
And Madge Walters was this lady from San Francisco, who was very rich, who went to,
but had some kind of terminal cancer. She went to Browning.
She met with a Swimsunder. I think it might have been Mike Swimsunder's dad.
The late Mike Swimsunder's dad, who's in my lineage for the beaver bundle.
He brought her to Blood Tribe, where she got to witness and participate in the Sundance.
And she connected at that time with three young people here.
Eugene Creighton, Frank Redcro, and
he was a woman, I want to say Ethel, but he's a big sorrel horse.
Madge Walters was her last name, big sorrel horse. Three people that Madge Walters, young people, like in their like early 20s.
And she connected with them. They all had parents and close relatives in major positions in the societies and in the Sundance and such, and they started selling her things.
Sometimes they would fake it. They would make the shit themselves and sell her a replica that she couldn't tell the difference.
But going through the museums, we can tell the difference. Sometimes they would sell her that stuff, but a lot of times, once someone with a major bundle was passing on,
they would go in and acquire that bundle for a very small amount of money.
Sometimes 35, 50 bucks.
Can I interrupt you with a question here for a moment?
Sure.
Explain to the people listening something about what a beaver bundle is.
Alright, so beaver bundle, for instance, the thing that I ended up repatriating from Harvard in this story is the embodiment of the original treaty between human beings and animals.
You know, in this area, like the Blackfoot territory of North America, which is substantial, it's like the Upper Missouri and Upper Saskatchewan drainage basins is two major, the headwaters of two major river systems.
And this goes back to like when the beaver bundle came in was the same time that dogs were domesticated because they're part of that story.
So that's how old this goes back.
And about how long is that to go?
I have no idea.
