Hey everybody, thanks for joining me on my walk, little exercise.
It's much hotter in this place than it ordinarily is by far, by like 20 degrees.
Now that's a normative statement, right?
I'm saying, well there's a generality here, yeah, well, the specific is what matters because
that's what we actually encounter.
But it's hard not to notice for me change, transformation, the movement from a relatively
predictable manifold of situations, or at least a context in which we're inclined to
delude ourselves into thinking we know generally and maybe somewhat specifically what's going
on, or even what's wrong, what is unwracked, what isn't right, what isn't correct.
So one of the things I've noticed as a denizen of Golden Gate Park is that many of the fir
trees over the past few years have been severely sunburned.
And these are trees maybe 30 to 50 years old.
The arborists say they've never seen anything like it in their time.
And some of them have been around a while.
These trees are vulnerable.
And all of life is vulnerable.
But changes in our relationship with the sun, these are fundamental changes for life on
earth.
If something in the sun changes that is accessible to living beings, and I'm going to presume,
I'm going to go on the dangerous side of accessible and presume that most of the changes
that happen in the sun are expressed in some way terrestrially in the earth, in the living
beings.
A change in relation with the sun is not the kind of change the humans are very good at
understanding.
They've long ago departed a mystical relationship with origin, which doesn't mean insane narratives
by the way.
It just means sensitivity in the way that I'm using it.
It just means sensitivity to the unnameable.
All that is never captured or very rarely approached by our representational habits and frameworks
and thoughts.
And trust me when I, I hope you'll realize the grave sincerity in my voice when I say,
the representational frameworks that were handed down to us are severely damaged.
They're missing vast portions of what I'll refer to as maps.
In such a way that that absence is profoundly blinding to our thought.
By accepting the frameworks we've inherited, the vast majority of us have not merely lost
but are continuing to lose catastrophically libraries upon libraries of domains in which
we can develop, have experience, have meaningful roles and lives together with the world, with
nature.
And most of intelligence, as we should authentically conceive of it, is prohibited by the frameworks
we're used to using.
And there's all kinds of reasons, you know, there's all kinds of descriptions of how this
happened and why this happens.
I think they'd be too tedious to explore at length, so I'll skip over them.
But what I'm trying to say is it's not inexplicable.
It's relatively easy to frame an explanation of where the damage came from, how we took
the damage, how we accelerate the damage together most of the time.
Any time we speak or write, when we use language, we're expanding the damage.
And we have the same problem, you can see it very clearly with technology.
We keep inventing new frameworks, we being Homo sapiens, the species on Earth.
We keep inventing and deploying lethally self-terminating frameworks in nature against our own origin.
And with 7.6 billion of us, we can really accelerate that process in a way.
Otherwise difficult to conceive of.
And we are, if we is Homo sapiens in general.
And of course, again, it's not so much the individuals, though we all have roles.
It's the institutions, the corporations, the collectives are disembodied.
They essentially play like demons.
And since they don't have bodies, they can't lose bodies, they can't die.
They don't have minds.
They don't have senses.
They sense markets and respond.
The humans inside the, just so that it doesn't sound like I'm talking about a homunculus.
The humans inside the institutions and corporations and governments and so on.
They are all playing out roles, partly determined traditionally and historically.
Partly determined linguistically.
And those roles incline them to prosper if they defect from authentic human relation.
So all of these institutions are basically sort of carrots inviting people to defect.
And the ones who don't defect will lose the competition.
Because the ones who do gain degrees of liberty in what we can clumsily call competition.
It's actually something weirder than that, I think.
So this is where we find ourselves, circa 2020, but it's not new.
It's just been recently doubled down and tripled down.
Maybe even exponentially redowned on.
It's like 95 degrees in my neighborhood, where for two decades very rarely rose above 68.
I don't know if it's wrong, but it's different.
One of the things on my mind was to talk somewhat humorously about what's wrong.
By saying, well, there isn't a second list.
Then somebody might say, well, what do you mean?
And I mean, there's nothing on the other list, the list of what isn't wrong.
At least for humans right now in our representational behavior, thought and activity, there's nothing
really that isn't wrong.
So if we want to ask what's wrong, the answer is simpler than any of us might expect.
There's nothing that isn't wrong right now.
I'm half joking, of course, and I'm speaking of a limited contextual scope.
Us humans, what we do, how we relate with nature, language, each other, ourselves, taken
as a whole.
It's mostly wrong.
Take any individual.
There's going to be mostly wrongness going on right now.
It's really funny that there's an actual correct time, which is right now.
The right now.
The good now.
That's something we've mostly been absent from.
So many of us strive to live authentic and sincere and considerate and compassionate
and intelligent and creative lives, and I'm not reigning on that parade at all.
I'm saying that wherever that itself might be going well, the context is collapsing.
The layered, the skyscrapers of layered fictions that are humanity mostly orbits and serves
is pretty much all wrong.
And the more representational it is, the more wrong it is right now.
And I'm using that word to mean methods and prostheses, which we employ to defect from
meaningful relation with ourselves, with each other, with the world, with the sun, with
knowledge, with language, with the possibility of human intelligence.
So when we defect from that, we get representations, and some of them seem very noble.
It's not like they all look bad, right?
It's more that there's an inherent danger in that ploy that's too easily overlooked.
And I know this somehow relates to the formation and transformation of what we often refer
to as our psyche, because that's part of where that ongoing battle between origin and representation
is happening in us individually, and at least analogously in groups, cohorts, populations,
nations.
If you hear the music in the language, which is something I try to remain aware of, I practice
it.
You'll notice that words like constitution, intrusion, attention, corporation, institution,
representation, relation.
They all have either the I-O-N ending, or many of them have the T-I-O-N, or even A-T-I-O-N,
appropriation, nation, reparation, salvation, appropriation.
This phonemic fragment has profound meaning that's very difficult to see if one has only
spoken English, or has never been engaged with an alphabet where the letters have meanings.
And there's so many different ways to break this down, but if I were breaking it down
for a child, I might say the sound, though variously inflected for different purposes
in different words, it represents where we come together at the tree.
At the tree of origin, at the tree of union of heart and life, and hope, and prodigy,
but also at the tree of death, malignancy, disembodied frameworks propagating in waves
of staggering, self-accelerating, omniside, communication.
These words have a magic inside them that the English speakers will likely never see,
and it's the kind of magic that would easily collapse into a religion, unfortunately.
It's very ancient, it goes far, far back before the origins of English or its progenitors.
It's old evidence of the minds of our distant ancestors and progenitors.
A tree, A-T, I, a self, one who sees, O, the great unity that is origin, and new transformations.
When we come together, things change.
If we come together falsely for purposes that are ignoble, malign, deceptive, competitive
in the wrong way, then we're gathering at the dark tree, the tree of death, the tree
where minds collapse, or societies collapse, self-terminating games, though they don't
terminate immediately, they terminate in near-term futures, and sometimes they terminate immediately.
When we come together instead with authenticity, our essence, the noble virtues that comprise
what I think of as the foundation of our nature as beings, and compasses, right?
Things that help us navigate where thoughts and ideas are insufficient to guide us well.
Our hearts are dreaming, our visions, the noble and beautiful innate nature of human
beings prior to being dipped in the bronze of representational language and cultures.
The good stuff.
When we come together around that, the tree we meet at becomes a portal to astonishing
recollection, reunion, communion, participation, consciousness, intelligence, wonder, awe, reverence.
And this, I think, is what, or I imagine, is what the deepest aches within us ache toward.
In the Old Garden in Genesis there were two trees, the one that got us in trouble is referred
to as the Tree of Knowledge, but this, the actual language in Hebrew, and anyone can
correct me if I've got this wrong, it implies death.
The name of the tree implies death.
And the other tree, the Tree of Life, an angel set to guard it, lest by our access to it
we become gods when we are not prepared for that role.
Now of course we've become gods, we are the knowledge gods, we are the making gods, we
are the technique gods we think, but we're acting more like an infant having a tantrum
with an atomic bomb trigger in its hand.
I want to tear down every living thing and make it into an object, and if I can't do
that all games end, I'll kill everybody, everything.
Infinite hunger without satiation, without satiety, is the gift of the Tree of Knowledge
when divorced from the Tree of Communion, life.
The angel that guards that tree is very interesting, it spins a sword in every direction at once.
It makes a sphere.
When the sun changes everything changes.
We're doing intelligence wrong, we're doing language wrong, we're doing being together falsely.
We're doing being of nature wrong.
Our efforts to solve problems create twelve others in the future.
Our institutions are primed to defect from ethics, nobility, integrity, purpose because
their origins and histories are both malignant and fake.
Calling that out is not going to help us much.
And when one sees that something's wrong, we sort of feel a duty, hey, that package
over there lying around for four hours looks kind of suspicious.
Is it safe?
By the way, that particular threat isn't one that was muchly popular before a certain series
of events in the past couple decades.
But yeah, if we see something wrong like that there's smoke coming out of the window, right?
We tell someone.
And in some cases we get involved directly rather than summoning authorities who are
vested with the, supposedly vested with the skill, equipment and understanding to deal
with the issue, doctors and such, lawyers and things.
Lawyers are a particularly interesting symptom of huge problems with our frameworks.
So yeah, we point it out, right?
And we're living in this really bizarre moment.
We're pointing out what's wrong is making things more wrong.
Did I point out the house fire if I knew that the firemen were going to be bringing gasoline?
Because that's how it is a lot these days.
And in fact, the problem that we have with police is precisely this kind of problem, right?
In the United States in general.
But we've got two different kinds of malignancy.
We've got the responders are going to create problems.
And we also have the collapse toward calling people out, while some of its purposes are
not entirely off the base.
Its tactics and outcomes suck.
Bad.
So there's this whole idea of like, call out the bad thing.
And then try to prosecute the bad things originators.
And I'm not claiming we should entirely depart that behavior because we have to use it intelligently, right?
If it's not used intelligently, it creates more problems of different kinds.
And it's not equipped to solve those problems that it creates this motivation.
And you'll notice in a way that I'm employing a paradox here because I'm going to call out calling out.
Or actually, I'm going to call out the forms of calling out that get us worse problems while masquerading as heroic.
But don't negatively affect the entire commons by imposing a kind of witch hunt.
And that witch hunt is endless.
Just want to be really clear.
Start down that road.
That's a hungry ghost.
That thing will eat everything and never stop.
