Because it has to sustain itself once it's instanced, just like all the other competing.
Human behavioral frames, ideological frames, philosophical frames, financial frames, political frames, religious frames.
All these things are in competition.
Mostly zero-sum competition, kill the enemy kind with each other.
And just in case it isn't obvious, those games are going to take up 74% of our processing power, right?
Of our pool of potential that we can enact.
They're going to just keep eating more and more and more of that until there's none available for us.
Until our games overwhelm our being, overwhelm our bodies, overwhelm our relationships and minds, and overwhelm nature.
And I don't think we're on the brink of this.
I wish I could say we were, and hopefully I'm wrong.
I think we've fallen off the cliff of this and are now accelerating toward the reunion with gravity at the bottom of that fall.
So, I want to suggest something slightly different, invitation.
That we invite each other toward sincere, earnest authenticity, toward meaningful roles, toward the possibility of intelligence.
Toward clearly seeing through language and representations in a way that lifts us back to our original place far above them when they were toys, not gods.
Invitation, calling in.
Hey, come on over.
Invitation.
All these words, they have this old song, and that song is filled with a hundred stories, a thousand stories, of living beings being beautiful together.
Human beings, non-human beings, the ecologies, the living place beings, the sun, the moon, the morning star, all of the planets, all of the moons.
The essence of time space itself.
Alive in us, remember?
Remember?
You see, you get this staggering benefit when you distinguish individual beings from a unity, and then they have local, unique, specific experience.
Unique to all the ways in which they are unique, as beings, as consciousnesses, as humans, as animals, as dreamers, as thinkers, as those who speak and hear.
When they have that unique experience distinctly, and then they come back together into reunion, then an ancient celebration takes place.
And from that celebration emerges gifts, the ancestral inheritance, brought back to life in our direct experience, not our narratives, not our representations.
In our souls, the souls in which the light of living eyes sings.
The whole idea was reunion, not competition.
And there's something competition-like in there, but the real stuff is noble.
Its purposes are noble, its outcomes are noble, and beautiful, and true, truthful, trustworthy.
Most of us have to skip over the actual astonishing complexity of our human interiority, the inconceivable gifts that we're born with.
We have to skip all that, and play out roles that quickly collapse into habit, addiction, defection from ourselves, from origin, from nature, from relation, into representations.
That's a grueling, miserable job.
No one I can think of would knowingly accept that job, and it requires incredible quantities of work to sustain its misery, to sustain that defection, that running away from our own interiority.
Our essence, the meaning of our birth, not in words, in relationships.
If we could make the space to do half that much work toward reunion in our own bodies, not merely in our relationships with other people, but certainly there too.
But no, just with ourselves, to reunite our dreaming mind with our waking mind, our heart with our intellect, our essence with the toys that can reject entirely, or use in ways
that are truthful, and authentic, honorable.
We have to select the tree on purpose, every time we reunite with anything. We're back at that old choice, relation, or gratification.
And I think many of us have forgotten, or become numb, to the sensations with which we tell the difference immediately.
When our hearts and beings light up, and feel electrically alive, when we set foot in the lake, or when I catch my friend just before she was to fall, and we're both okay, and we laugh.
Mutuality is profoundly rewarding, and it's been getting evicted by an ever-accelerating propagation of photographs, texts, media objects.
Time we didn't spend together, time we spent with screens, apart. It leads to devastation.
We can invite each other, and ourselves, to better ways of seeing, being, thinking, learning, behaving, working, loving.
When the tattered remains of origin, our frameworks are lenient enough to allow to us.
There's just enough play to get a tiny bit of nectar from the framework still.
Maybe that phenomenon will not last long, under present circumstances.
So ideas that have been circulating in my reflective awareness, backing away from representation into relationships.
But perhaps we live in a moment when the sovereign of the interval in long time, the one who that interval, the progenitor of that interval, the sovereign who the interval inherits its character and qualities from.
Has changed in a way not dissimilar to how a month changes in a year, except in the span of epochs of like thousands of years.
I think we've crossed a boundary like this, and something has fundamentally changed for human beings in the past few years.
Though it's, again, it's been going for a long time. It's just suddenly something has flipped over, and it's as if one of the qualities of time switched its polarity.
These are my thoughts, anyway.
I'm trying to learn to understand.
And I'm certainly willing to have it wrong.
I'm just trying to learn to see in a new kind of darkness that's unfamiliar, that we don't have language about.
And that, as usual, tries to appear in the guise of brightness.
Now I'm a fan of the good darkness, and I'm not big on the bad brightness.
So it's not like darkness is bad, and brightness is good, or right is correct, and left is wrong.
Wrong.
Though in our language, that idea is embedded the right way.
It's a pretty weird idea, because there's all different kinds of ways.
A good way is an interesting idea.
A beneficial way, that works.
The right way? That has very limited reasonable scope of application.
So what's wrong?
I don't know, but I'm learning to see.
With and for you, living beings of Earth, and the history and the future of our world.
I'm trying to learn to see.
Hopefully we see together soon, again.
