Now, the waking mind is a very tiny thing compared, it's a fragile, tiny, delicate, highly structured thing compared to the dreaming mind.
The dreaming mind is vastly more resilient and not reactive, but it probably doesn't like it if an agent of the waking mind shows up in the dreaming world with the intent to take that whole universe down.
But this is what happens. Now, whether or not my story fits the facts isn't really important.
In other words, whether I've got exactly the right narrative isn't really important.
What's important is just to understand that there's an aspect of the mind that is tasked under certain conditions with taking down the dream immediately.
And that aspect is, in fact, a world destroying being.
It's there to kill the dreaming mind so that we will awaken from the dream, and the waking mind will gain precedence,
and then we can continue with the activities and or confusions of our waking world lives.
Now, this is a really fascinating discovery for me.
And when I first had the realization I was overwhelmed with excitement,
and it played out in various ways for a number of different people differently as we discussed and explored this situation.
And I may make further videos about this, but one of my related concerns and interests is what happens if that aspect of consciousness or the mind,
normally what happens is the dream collapses and so the interloper disappears with it, because it's part of the dreaming manifold itself.
So it's as if an aspect of the anatomy of the dream transforms into the hitman.
I'm going to take this down, and I'm only using the gender language here because it's a common trope.
So it then occurred to me that what if that aspect crosses over into waking consciousness?
You see, in the dreaming world, that eight-year-old man,
so it then occurred to me that what if that aspect crosses over into waking consciousness?
You see, in the dreaming world, that agent, that asset, as I mentioned, is relatively omnipotent.
In the simple sense, well, it's not omnipotent, that's not true,
but it has great power in the sense that it holds the key to turn the dream off.
And that's essentially a world-destroying move.
The world of that dream will disappear if it succeeds, which it normally does.
There are exceptions.
But what would happen if that aspect came over here in the waking world
and found purchase in our mind so that it could sustain itself in the waking world
as a fundamental organ of our mind, emotions, being, motivations, and so on?
And one of the problems with that happening is that that asset expects to be decisive
in the sense that what it says and does goes.
It expects to be powerful and to have the capacity to destroy the world if it doesn't like what's going on.
And mostly it doesn't like what's going on because anything it's not in control of should go away.
And this is the common feeling of the waking mind.
It wants grasping and control.
That's not its only property, but it's a common feature.
So what would happen if this dream assassin got loose over here in our waking lives?
And one of the answers is paranoid schizophrenia.
But there are other answers like dictators, tyrants, childish men and or women
who absolutely declare their authority, power, dominance, priority, perfectness, righteousness, and so on.
And these all look to me like the behaviors of the dream hit man throwing a tantrum over here
because it can't simply just take the world down in a couple of moves if it doesn't like what's going on.
But it's highly motivated to have a go at it.
And this is a problem because over here that asset does not belong in our waking world.
That's something from the underworld.
And it's not dissimilar to what we might think of as a demon over here in this world
because it's ordinarily in my hypothesis, in my theory.
That asset is profoundly powerful.
It just shows up and the world collapses and it wins with some few exceptions.
But in the waking world, it just shows up and gets angrier and angrier and angrier
until its rage is absolutely volcanic.
And what is the rage about impotence?
The living, the waking world is not like the dreaming world.
You can't just touch a switch and destroy the whole thing, including yourself.
So many schizophrenics have fantasies of destroying the world.
You'll hear them say things like, and I know people who've said these things.
Well, I think really everyone needs to die and the world needs to die
and the solar system needs to die and the universe needs to die.
And I want to blow it up down to the tiniest particle.
I want every little facet of reality obliterated.
And even I want the obliteration obliterated.
And this is a very strange thing for a human mind to be doing with itself, to put it mildly.
And so this looks to me, it resembles what we might expect from the dream hitman,
where it to escape its ordinarily useful context in dreaming
and arise over here in the waking mind of an individual or perhaps even a group of individuals.
So in this figure, in this model, the dream hitman somehow begins to be able to preserve itself
in waking consciousness as a faculty or organ.
And it quickly becomes enraged at its own impotence.
It's the fact that it can't take the world apart just because it wants to.
And the individual thus afflicted may become convinced that they are either some kind of biblically messianic figure
or the Antichrist or something like this.
And you can see the fingerprint of this kind of
confused, enraged
Tyrant infant, infant tyrant, right?
This is some kind of infantile aspect here.
In extreme narcissists and other similar people, not that we want to go diagnosing people,
but people like, for example, the present president.
And other people throughout history, I need name names.
And so this looks to me like an attempt to embody the world destroying figure of the asset, right?
The dream hitman.
Except that over here, it will actually obliterate everything, if allowed to.
And over here, it cannot be sated, right?
It cannot be fulfilled.
Whereas in the dreaming context, it takes the dream down, it's succeeded.
And it goes with the dream, and we emerge into waking consciousness, and everything goes on, as it would otherwise ordinarily do.
But one of the things that happens, I think, in this model, if there's any validity to it, is that if it escapes the dreaming context
and comes over here, the first thing it starts attacking is the mind of the person in whom this is taking place.
Because that's actually the dreaming world, that's the scope of the dreaming world for that asset, right?
So it will first attack the mind that is originating it, right?
And then when that attack becomes like a ceaseless war that's constantly being amped up, inflated,
then it will turn its attention to the world and to others, right?
And it will become very concerned with scapegoating, right?
Who in the world will is depriving me of my potency and my power to destroy, right?
Or who in the world is depriving me of my power and my potency to be a man or a woman or, you know, whoever it is we are trying to be a vocation, right?
And it will build complex sort of inner court cases against various scapegoats,
and those might be ethnicities or specific individuals or groups, institutions and so on.
And this is part of what often happens in the mind of a severely afflicted paranoid schizophrenic.
And they may have inside them just this incredible boiling rage that there's no way for them to get rid of or to express,
which in case it isn't clear, is an experience of being tortured by one's own mind, right?
By one's own body, by one's experience of being human.
And I know people who have survived that torture for decades, and it's absolute agony for them.
And none of those people I know deeply wish to inflict harm on others,
yet there's this aspect of their mind that is constantly, right, ceaselessly, it doesn't give them a break,
sort of yelling in their head, you know, kill, destroy, fuck those, these people, fuck that person, right?
Like just really incoherent rage and demands for action.
And there's different ways to understand this, and I'm not claiming that the model I've presented is the only
or the most useful or clear explanation.
I'm curious about the potential for this model to have some explanatory power in various forms of mental disorder or decoherence.
So I've been fascinated by this topic for this particular topic of in-dreaming for about a year and a half.
And I have to say the moment when I had the initial insight that the interloper was an asset of either the waking mind or the dreaming mind,
tasked with, you know, bringing the dream to a close because we're supposed to be doing something else,
or our rhythms have become so dysregulated that we're in danger of reinforcing those dysregulations.
What a staggering insight that was, and it resonated really deeply with me, and still does, and with others who I spoke with.
So for today, I mainly wanted to introduce this model and reflect on it briefly so that there would be some record of this little discovery
and so that it might assist those who've experienced something similar and it might reassure them
that not only is this not necessarily some bizarre, you know, metaphysical problem or whatever, which, you know, in some cases perhaps it could be.
But generally speaking, there's a much more pragmatic perspective that's sensible and functional and doesn't require exotic narratives, right?
It doesn't require metaphysical narratives.
And again, not that I'm trying to dismiss metaphysics or anything like that.
I just want to start with something very pragmatic so that we can begin to understand things like this together and continue to explore them together to understand them more deeply.
This is a nascent insight. It's still pretty fresh.
However, it had significant consequences for me and others in our dreaming experience when we began to explore it.
And it may go some way toward explaining the bizarrely tyrannical, you know, world-dominating aspect of people who have done great harm to human society and culture for the sake of their own grandisement.
So there's a real world analog of this dreaming world phenomenon and I find that profoundly intriguing, perhaps you do too.
So for today, I think I'll end there.
But I'm grateful to have had this opportunity to spend time together and explore briefly some of the anatomy of the relationship between our dreaming and waking minds and its possible impact on the waking world.
Because believe me, if that thing gets loose over here, we're in trouble. And of course, we're in trouble.
So thank you for joining me.
I'll see you next time.
And I wish you every good thing for you and those you love, those who love you.
And more soon. Bye-bye for now.
