Hey everybody. Thanks for joining me. My afternoon exercise walk with my very
expensive earring. So here I have animal friends and I made friends with them by
spending time with them and demonstrating my interest in them. Being
patient. My interest is not ordinary in that I'm not just after a photo
opportunity or formal understanding like the kind that most biologists seek.
Oh here's a crow on the ground. I mean a hawk on the ground.
In the afternoon sunlight.
You may be grabbing worms.
Beautiful.
Of course I'm interested in these animals as well.
But they're a bit more difficult to establish a relationship with.
And again with them I'm not really interested in photo opportunities.
That was just I came around the corner and saw the hawk.
So I thought I'd share it. But what I wanted to talk about is there's a pair of animals
who I'm friends with and one of them is significantly more timid than the other.
The other is significantly more intrepid than the reserved one.
And they both know me well. They've had time to see that I'm not attempting to trap them or
you know interfere with their lives. Rather I'm hoping for companions.
And they like companionship too. They like my companionship.
So we usually spend a little time together when I visit.
But the important thing and the reason I mention them is that
together they form a union and the intrepid one competes against the reserved one.
And the intrepid one is obviously more capable of obtaining physical benefits from the relationship.
Because it's intrepid and it's willing to have a little conflict and a little danger and so on.
But what I noticed is that they both depend on each other.
The intrepid one hitchhikes on the reservedness of the less intrepid one, the less audacious one.
And the reserved one also hitchhikes on the sensing and activity of the more intrepid one.
And so together they are much more than they could ever be apart.
And they teach me all kinds of things. Some of them don't fit into language.
But I learned by spending time with them and seeing how they relate with each other and with me and with the living place that we share.
And they are my good friends.
The important feature that I want to highlight is this sort of bipolarity.
And how they work together in the same way aspects of ourselves, of our own interiority, our humanity, our animal-ness, our more-than-human-ness, our nature, has something analogous.
Many of our finest aspects and faculties as humans are shy.
And unless they find themselves either in a moment of opportunity or a context that is supportive, they hide.
Yeah, these senses, feelings, ways of being in the world, ways of being human, ways of being in relationships.
And I don't want to give the impression that we're so simple that we just have two conflicting aspects that also cooperate.
And this is one of the narratives we've inherited from neuroscience and psychology and so on.
And it's not a terrible model, but it's not sophisticated enough to capture what it's orbiting very well.
But again, it's useful and I don't want to dismiss it, I just want to make it clear that our minds and our souls and our emotional selves and our biological selves, there are many different facets of our humanity, not one or two.
And in fact, facets emerge and dissolve according to habits, timing, because everything in nature hitchhikes on opportunity.
And this is important because if you want to live in time space where things are unpredictable and often opportunity or threat is momentary,
it's important to have a sophisticated way of sensing and responding to this, to changes, to rhythms, the rhythms of the moon cycles, the rhythms of the sun cycles,
the rhythms throughout a single day, the rhythms in a single hour, the rhythms in a moment.
Because you see the animals don't live in the same temporal extent that we do.
Their temporal extents are different from ours, the birds have a very expedited sense of temporality.
They don't live for 70 years, most of them.
And so their world and their timelines are vastly faster than our smaller birds more so, larger birds less so.
You can see if you just watch a hummingbird, that the way it's in the world of time is completely different from the way I am or even a sparrow is,
which is only a bird maybe twice as large as a hummingbird most of the time.
So the topic I want to introduce today relates to this issue of different aspects of ourselves that are both in competition and rely on each other,
although one of them relies far more deeply on its origin than the other does on its progeny, or so I will frame it.
And the topic relates to the distinctions between our waking mind and its faculties and assets, expectations and habits,
ways of being a mind and our dreaming mind and its faculties and habits, expectations, desires.
Because each of these aspects of our mind has priorities and they differ dramatically.
And because I want to talk about a very specialized aspect of this relationship that I discovered over the past year with the help of some others,
the perhaps inadvertent help of others,
I'm going to limit the scope to a specific set of concerns and observations that I've made.
Now I've been very fascinated with dreaming since I was young, although I think we're inclined to accept the proclamations of adults when we're little,
so if they tell us, oh those are just dreams, don't pay any attention to that, it's just your imagination and so on.
A child with good parents who trusts them is likely to take that on board.
So I did, somewhat, except that I was aware that there were different kinds of dreaming.
And so it was very clear to me that the word dream doesn't just refer to one thing,
though we can encompass all of the phenomenon with one thing, one word, the same way we do with humans.
And the language is very deceptive because it gives us the impression that if we know what to call it, we understand what it is the tag refers to much more deeply than the tag itself allows.
And in this case, the tag doesn't do anything, it's like any other tag.
If we don't understand, for example, that there are different kinds of dreaming, then we'll just think, oh, all this stuff is just dreaming.
It's not so. That's not even possible. I mean, it's only possible in language, right?
So, as I mentioned, life hitchhikes on rhythms. Rhythms help us all the time.
And they hinder us, too, when they become desynchronized from each other.
And most of us are aware that we have circadian rhythms, the rhythms according to which we sleep.
When do we sleep in the day, in the 24-hour span? What's the sleep window?
And for each of us, this changes and differs throughout our lifetimes and some of us have terrible trouble with it and so on.
And many of us are probably struggling now with peculiar problems with sleep and dreaming due to the pandemic,
which has changed our social, vocational, and behavioral rhythms.
So, I became very interested in a specific phenomenon, which is the emergence near the end of a dreaming cycle of a threat.
Now, there's lots of different kinds of ways this plays out.
But I and others that I know have had experience of a particular kind of presence in the dreaming world.
And it can take various forms, but often it takes the form of an unexpected interloper, essentially an invader of some kind.
And the people that I've spoken with often speak of feeling very angry suddenly or outraged at this presence in their dreaming,
or frightened and paralyzed.
And almost always the emergence of this interloper, it signals the end of the dreaming cycle.
And it has peculiar qualities in the dreaming context.
Not only is it unconcerned about threats and violence and weapons and such,
it wants to fight. It would like to fight.
And it would like, in a sense, presuming it has its own interiority, which I'm not presuming actually.
I'm just using language this way.
It's resistant to most strategies of dealing with it.
And it's expertly resistant so that if someone attacks it, that will often make it happy and the attacks don't succeed.
They don't penetrate. They don't help get rid of the invader presence.
And it can be a person or a situation, but often it's a person.
And sometimes they're armed with a gun or something.
Or it might be someone that someone's had a lot of trouble with.
In their life, emotionally.
This person shows up. There's anger in the dreaming.
Maybe someone's trying to yell or scream and they can't.
Or they try to hit the person and the other person, the invader just laughs, is entertained by the idea that the dreamer will attack them.
And then the dream usually comes to an end, in part because one of the best ways to end a dream is simply to introduce adrenaline.
And our bodies do this on a natural rhythmic timeline to wake us up, to prepare us for awakening.
There's a specific time of night. I think it's between 4 and 5 a.m. for many people.
But there's a time of night where it's very common for there to be an injection of adrenaline.
This causes the heart to race and we awaken.
Now we're not aware of that in the dreaming context obviously.
We're not aware of our body releasing chemistry and stuff.
But we may wake up a little bit agitated or feeling anxious.
And I studied this phenomenon and also the sidedness of it.
Which side of the room or the place does this interloper appear on? What do they do?
And I talked with a variety of people and most of them had some similar experience, not all of them.
And each one's experience was somewhat unique.
I learned some astonishing things during my exploration of this and it's an ongoing project for me.
But I learned some things that were unexpected.
So for example, I learned that we don't merely have a circadian rhythm.
It appears that we also have what I'll call an oniric rhythm.
O-N-E-I-R-I-C, which is a word referring to dreaming.
And so there are situations where various kinds of dysregulation occur or desynchronization of these rhythms.
And our oniric rhythm can separate from our circadian rhythm.
So that we are not dreaming at night.
And we may only be dreaming if we take a nap during the day or accidentally fall asleep.
Or we may, our body may expect to dream at times that aren't enclosed in the circadian cycle.
They don't fall within the sleep window.
And so it turns out that our oniric rhythm and our circadian rhythm can be dysregulated.
And this is a fascinating situation because an aspect of our mind is aware of this dysregulation.
And it knows that as that continues, as the desynchronization continues to deepen,
we are in danger, health danger, psychological danger, emotional danger.
And so the aspects of the mind that sort of figuratively oversee these processes, right,
they have abilities.
And under some circumstances when we are dreaming, when it is important that we perhaps should be awake instead,
not just because there's something we have to do, but because if we continue to sleep in dysregulated or desynchronized ways,
the link between dreaming and sleep will continue to break down.
And that's very problematical for us because dreaming is necessary for survival.
If we stop dreaming completely, we will lose the capacity to keep our bodies warm and other metabolic capacities.
But also our memory and cognition will suffer pretty catastrophically, very quickly.
Research I'm aware of showed that mice that were kept from dreaming for seven days died,
and they died primarily of inability to maintain their body temperature.
So it's a mammalian thing, not that reptiles don't have some similar situations.
And so under some circumstances, an aspect of the dreaming mind is sort of a sentinel, right, a watcher,
something that watches over these processes.
Under some circumstances, this aspect wakes up and realizes, hmm, we've got a problem, right.
So and so is dreaming when really they should be awake and they need to be awake so that we don't crash the cycle further,
crash the synchronization further.
And in this case, under some circumstances, the dreaming mind activates.
Now it could actually, it's unclear to me which of the two active was involved here, right.
This could be the intrusion of the waking mind into the dreaming manifold, or it could be a faculty of the dreaming mind.
And it looks more like the first one, right, that actually perhaps this is a faculty of the waking mind.
But essentially what happens, and this turns out to be very important,
is that one of the two aspects, oh this is very strange, I wonder why this is true.
There's large chunks of sage all over the place here, a plant.
I bet they just pulled it out, yeah, they just pulled it out.
Well I'm going to gather some of this, and then I will continue the video in just a moment.
So it turns out that under some circumstances, either the dreaming mind or the waking mind activates an asset in intelligence language.
And that asset is effectively a dream hitman.
Its goal is to emerge within the dreaming context and present a threat,
so that the dreamer will respond in some way to this threat, either with fear or anger or both or paralysis.
And the dreamer may try to fight, right, the interloper.
And that activation of anger, which I find extremely uncommon for me in dreaming,
unless something very unusual is going on, almost never angry in a dream.
Now that may differ from other people's experience, in fact I presume that it does,
and perhaps dramatically some people may feel, may have recollections of experiencing emotions and dreams that are troubling.
But I generally don't.
Most of the time the dream is an adventure, and even if there is dire circumstances or crisis,
I generally don't become frightened or angry, though I may be concerned, right.
If things go sideways in a certain way, I may become concerned about that.
But generally, not very often am I frightened or angry, except in situations like this one.
And so, I've had this experience as well, where the interloper shows up and I'm angry and I try to fight,
and usually it kind of laughs at me, and if I try to hit it or something, it doesn't work.
And it seems entertained by the fact, the character in the dream is entertained by the fact that I'm getting, you know, upset, right.
And so, this can become a common experience for some people when their dreaming mind becomes,
their oneric rhythm gets desynchronized from their circadian rhythms, their sleep rhythms.
And, as I've mentioned, many of us are in this boat, so to speak, at the moment.
So, when I first encountered this phenomenon, I was very puzzled by it, and I thought, what's this about, right?
Why are there these sort of bad people showing up and making people angry and frightened and so on?
And, you know, each person's life and dreaming world is different, but I talk with a number of people about these things,
and so we share, you know, some of our experience with each other, and reflect upon it together.
And when I made this discovery that there's a kind of a, an aspect of the mind that is tasked with taking out,
just like collapsing the dream world, right, into waking,
when I became aware of this, it affected my dreaming.
And there were a variety of adventures that I had as I was learning more about this that were extremely instructive.
Of course, I had to wait for opportunities, such as those I hear described, right?
I had to wait and hope and see what would happen if, in my own dreams, something like this occurred and how I might work with it.
And, because that's a very personal thing, I'm not going to tell long stories about that.
I will say, however, that the moment of insight, right, when I realized, ah, one of the minds, right, has realized there's a problem,
and it's activating an asset, and the asset goes in to take the dream now.
And in the dreaming world, that aspect is essentially omnipotent, because it can destroy the whole world, right?
With a few relatively simple moves, I mean, all it really needs to do is show up in such a way that angers the dreamer,
the embodiment of the dreamer in the dream.
And basically, if it just accomplishes that, it mostly wins.
The dream will usually collapse shortly thereafter, and so the entire universe of dreaming just disappears.
It disappears into waking consciousness, which is very different.
And, in case it isn't clear which one of these aspects has precedence, the existence of the waking mind depends on the existence of the dreaming mind,
and the structured sort of anatomy of the waking mind is the result of converting aspects of the dreaming mind to hard, permanent, sort of concrete structure,
a process that happens in childhood.
And as this process proceeds, most of us lose our imaginations, or we lose huge aspects and functions of them.
Now, when we were very little, we were pretty much dreaming while we were awake, and we called this play.
Our dreaming mind was with us while we were awake, and at some point in our development, it mostly gets evicted to sleep.
And in case this isn't obvious, there's a very resonant analogy here in the Genesis story where Cain, the kind of structured guy who's an agricultureist, a farmer,
fights Abel, who roves across the land, flowing water, is associated with Abel, or Hevel, and Cain kills Abel and exiles Abel to the underworld.
Well, what world is that? That's the dreaming world, also the world of death.
And at this moment, in a sense, Abel becomes first born in the land of dreaming and the dead.
And the brothers struggle, sisters, if you will, throughout the day, and then finally at night, the dominant, intrepid, audacious one begins to relax,
and when it relaxes just enough, the precedence flips over, the dreaming mind comes to life, and the origins of the waking mind become our mind.
