But if you had to pick between them and you wanted to become intelligent, you would pick the ideograms for certain.
The content, the richness of them is staggering compared to the standing impoverishment of the English alphabet.
Now, it turns out that the English alphabet actually has similar qualities.
We just don't teach them to our children, and we don't remind each other of them so they are forgotten.
But you will never match the library of meanings available to the linguistic imagination that Chinese, Japanese, or other Asian languages create.
It may be that the modern alphabets will go away, too.
I'm not sure. It's conceivable. English will fade in some kind of a...
One thing I can envision is a sort of meta-language that's a combination of ideograms, geometric principles, and mathematical principles,
and I'm fairly sure is probably the common situation among advanced non-human intelligences.
If they have any need of symbols at all, if they have any need to...which they may not, they would probably have something like meta-language.
And it could...I think it's very likely actually that certain terrestrial organisms are employing something resembling a meta-language relationally, and perhaps even physically.
If you could imagine a language that would at once give you the ability to communicate a record-structured cognition while at the same time conveying...
Okay.
Conveying access to the position above where it is formed so that along with the content, it conveys the principles of its own formation.
All right. This would be like English, including...crazy thing as it probably does this, we just can't see it usually...
Including complex actionable information about its own origins, structure, and escape routes, right? How do you go above this?
I would argue that English does contain that, but ideogrammatic languages like Egyptian, Hebrew, maybe the Aztec stuff...
They have such a radically...
They have multiple domains of connotative content, associative content, right?
So that if you see...again, I can't speak confidently about this, but if you see the ideogram for a specific fruit, maybe it's a plum,
it would have many associations...the form of the ideogram will have some associations probably, and there's an intelligence behind that, right?
There's like the same way that a large language model after observing many, many, many instances of humans, not humans, but of linguistic records,
would get a blurry idea what H is. It doesn't get, in English, the letter H, right?
It doesn't get a...
Gemini, Google's AI experiment, can produce images. It's sort of prohibited from producing images of people for the moment,
but it can produce images of known, you know, referable objects, but if you ask it to produce an image of a letter, it can't do it.
Oh my God, I'm having a complex deja vu experience.
And it's not that it can never do it, it's that it often fails, right?
If you ask it to just type the letter H back to you, it can hack that, it can do that.
That's just text, but if you ask it to image an H, make a picture of an H, I think it's going to have a problem.
At least for the moment. And there's lots of interesting reasons why that might be fascinating, and also will probably change soon.
Yeah, imagine a language that teaches you about its structuring principles with every use in a way that you can be conscious of,
while also delivering a superposition above those principles so that you can discover better ones every time you use language at all.
An actually intelligent species would probably make language like that because if they don't, I would argue, you know, the way a science fiction author might, they're not going to be intelligent for long.
And consciousness itself may end up having some, hmm, in fact it's probably impossible that it doesn't.
I guess what I'm trying to say is that it seems likely that consciousness and language are both children of a similar origin, right?
And so they mutually bear the imprint of this origin in their structure.
But I still want to know, and I mean I have some sketches and ideas and such, but I really want to know more or less definitively,
did the humans get this confused by themselves or did they have help, right? How did they get this weird?
And my strong suspicion, I mean, look, if we had help, it's either active or passive, mostly, and then mostly intentional or non.
So passive help would mean something went away, right?
You can imagine the wild child lost in the wilderness at four, never recovered, you know, unrecovered until, you know, 14, 15, raised by dogs and such.
What happens? Can they be civilized once they come back? No, it turns out that humans, like other organisms, go through life phases.
And some of those phases are amenable to cognitive imprinting.
And most of those tend to, well, it's very complicated. It's certainly not simple.
There's lots of sort of bonus questions in this area.
There's Easter eggs hidden inside the way we formulate questions.
In fact, the prescient reformulation of the question is often vastly more useful than an answer.
Most of representational cognition as it exists on Earth today can be divided sort of into three categories.
The first is the stuff that's basically known. That's a fork, right? Concrete, simple reference to familiar objects or symmetries or situations.
But like the assumption of noun-ness, that's almost certainly wrong.
So you can learn a great deal by simply thinking that identity is more about verbs than it is about nouns.
And that relation and so forth, right? There are fundamental delusions underlying much of how we are trained to think.
Particularly in a situation where, you know, profit, like motivations that are fundamentally wrong.
Underly, you know, the continents of human cognition. There's these fault lines everywhere that are formed of delusions that become doctrinal,
mostly due to the intention to present humans as the only game in town, the smart animal.
I mean, woe be unto us for the ironic, the cascades of ironic apocalypse that emerge from that kind of activity.
Because the basis, the fundamental basis within which we behave is hypersensitive, intimately relationship, sensitive, relational and almost certainly transcendent.
So what you really don't want to do is make turbulence, make the wrong kinds of turbulence in the waters from which your own mind is emerging moment to moment.
And that's precisely what the humans pretty much are up to.
We probably don't need anything resembling the degree of prosthesis we practice to survive in nature.
But if we're not extremely careful, and we won't be, because there's nothing guiding the we, that we thing is literally like a headless horseman.
So it's just going to drive the horse everywhere.
All at once.
A moment.
You know, when I was developing a mind, the concept of computer programming had begun to trickle into the layer in which I was developing to the degree that I became fascinated with the concept.
Right?
Oh no, the terrible opposite of music again.
If only I could hear this far less frequently than I have to.
Yeah, it's kind of mind-wrecking.
So yeah, the idea of programming languages was becoming, you know, a new way, a new skill, right? A new way of being, a new way of life.
And I learned a couple.
I was a little bit handicapped by my lack of a formal mathematical education.
But not catastrophically so.
And I learned a lot about math by learning to program.
Programming.
And I'm certainly not recommending it at the moment.
That skill could be on its last legs conceivably.
I'm not really sure yet due to the onset of large language models and so on.
But programming was a behavior that one could do that would generate a direct encounter with metal language.
This is language that causes events.
Remember I said earlier that one of the most important features of language is that it structures human behavior?
So I want you to imagine for a moment what is it that is meta to programming languages but resembles them in the sense that it structures biology, cognition.
All of these things around us.
It's not, it's not, is neither purely formal nor is it purely informal.
It's a mix of formal and informal strategies of different kinds perhaps but actually I don't know what it is to be very clear.
I can imagine things about it.
But it does seem to exist.
Those who may make some claim often of a metaphysical nature, they have seen into the essence of things.
It is not uncommon to hear from such people, some of them mad, some not.
Some of them absolutely lucid.
That it's as if there's a language above language that is itself intelligent.
Imagine symbols that were themselves intelligent and not merely intelligible.
In the interim I was in a restaurant preparing to pick some food up and I was listening to three men discussing a chapter from one of Ibn Arabi's books.
The name of which I cannot easily recall as it is not in a language that I speak so I would have to remember it syllabically rather than linguistically.
But they were talking about Arabic and as a language and trying the complexity of any attempt to understand the kind of writing that Arabi produced.
And certainly what they are implying is that it is a complex array of metalinguistic simultaneities.
Its surface looks like ordinary language but it's got like seven other layers.
Because in Arabic as in Hebrew and Aramaic you have the incredible sophistication.
There must have been some other language common to all those people but the incredible sophistication of the alphabet by itself is profound.
Because the letters have meanings and more complicated still the letters have spellings.
So in Hebrew for example I know enough to know this.
Aleph is the letter Aleph so it begins with itself as perhaps nearly all of the letters do in Hebrew although I haven't examined that formally.
Aleph Lamed Pei and it's only very slight it's basically the same in Arabic.
And Aleph has a number of imagistic associations or form associations for example ox as in oxen.
Each of the Hebrew letters has that each of the Hebrew letters also has four at least four numbers associated with it which I will not here explain but you can easily discover through some research.
Now English is based on these chunks which we can call by various names phonemes perhaps.
Most of these chunks were borrowed from other languages such as Greek and Latin.
But in Hebrew or Aramaic or Arabic there's no such borrowing it is what it says in a way.
And the words are based on what are often referred to as trichonsonontal roots.
These are a collection of three consonants brought to life we might say by the inclusion of specific vowels the motion or spirit energy letters which for a long time weren't written.
Now that's a personal the spirit energy letters is more of a personal gloss on what I was shown about these languages long ago.
But as you can imagine each of the trichonsonontal roots and they can also be understood as biconsonontal right there are simply two consonants there and the third one is we might think a later addition.
These roots are not necessarily themselves in the words all the time some of them are unused.
There are some roots which are not I believe and I'm not a scholar there are some roots which are not actually used in words what is their function.
The languages of this type are not merely complexly connotative they are elusive not EL, AL.
They allude to and imply complex relationships between features of identity, origin, nature, structure, homonomy, synonymy, punning all of the peculiar figures that are possible in a spoken language.
So their languages are very different from ours and are in a sense metalinguistic to the relatively crude and perhaps seemingly primitive resemblance resemblances of function and meaning in English.
And it's possible for a skillful author in one of those languages to employ incredible sophistication of figures of speech.
In a sense from one perspective the Quran is not merely a religious text or quote the word of God or the words of God.
It's also it's doing the thing I was talking about before in a sense.
Sorry about that I wasn't expecting that.
Instructively encoding how the language is to be used and understood it's a little bit metalinguistic as a document.
One might think of it as not merely the primer for the proper use and speech of Arabic but that to which all Arabic speaking and writing is compared.
And since it has since there's the central codex right there's no such thing in English the closest thing in English might be the Bible but the Bible doesn't have the same breadth of authority or prescription showing how to speak.
That the Quran does.
So there are human examples of meta language and programming languages are particularly trippy and amazing and worthy of careful study and understanding.
Not the least because they're about to deliver a potentially apocalyptic technology to our species and the history and future of life on our planet.
Sorry about the noise.
I'm in the kitchen.
Imagine, you know when we read religious texts.
We may sometimes hear.
The whole idea of magic right is a kind of speech that restructures reality in its image right it tells reality what to become.
So we can imagine some process whereby and this is the nature particularly of certain relatively modern magical systems which are different from their non systemic origins which lay mostly more in relation and focus rather than in for example symbols.
A pentagram and so forth by the time you start getting symbols clearly something's gone bad because you now have to address abstractly what was previously addressed intimately that makes any sense.
And by the way that letter Aleph implies intimacy of familiarity but also firstness power.
One of the men I was listening to said it is understood in Arabic that the letter stands for I guess this is kind of a joke but it's not lost on me actually.
It stands for what it stands for it stands for the opposite of what it stands for or may right.
Your usage will determine whether it stands for what it's you know it is what it says or it is the opposite of what it says or and this is the hilarious part.
It has something to do with a candle and that last part is a joke that falls flat for many Westerners but you can imagine that if in the desert you need to go somewhere.
You can try to do it on foot in the sand.
Any of you who jog in the sand or have long walked on the sand will know what I'm pointing at here I think.
You can try to get there on sand dunes and in the desert a lot of the sand isn't exactly flat right so you'll be going up and down up and down.
If you don't have a camel you're mostly out of luck you're going to die there in many cases in many situations.
So the camel isn't just an animal your life is bound up with its life.
If you're very wealthy or there are many camels you can dispose of them but if you dispose of them wantonly and it gets around that you are like this the camels will not serve you.
They are intelligent beings and they are known to be intelligent beings.
So in a sense the joke about the camel is that the language itself is our camel.
We must revere and understand and care for it or surely we shall perish.
Also in the left bait which is probably I'm not sure I guess we get our phrase from Greek the alpha bait.
But these two sounds are the same in very similar right sequence and word and meaning and so forth.
The alphabet is the A B it's that couplet I was talking about earlier that's super important.
It might be seen possibly as the progenitors of all the other letters or something like this from some useful perspectives.
The left bait in Hebrew and Arabic both goes aleph bait gimel and the pronunciations may be slightly different in Aramaic or Arabic.
Gimel or gimel is the foot of a camel and everyone so it's sort of like the A B C's right there you got in a sense something resembling dad mom and the way they get around together.
Now scholars of this languages will probably send me hate mail for saying something that simplistic but there are fundamental principles in these languages that are
anterior they form the substructure of cognition that's the trapeze upon which conceptual cognition dances around while we're awake and perhaps differently while we sleep.
Okay so I haven't even touched on mathematics which is certainly a meta language in and of itself and in a sense we should probably understand programming languages as the progeny of mathematics in language.
But the feature I want to be really clear about is that both of those languages cause events.
And they don't just cause an event like the conclusion of an equation that conclusion of the equation causes physical possibilities to occur in technology understanding awareness and so forth.
And the computational variant.
Does something very similar with information.
But that is similarly has right both of these are ways of structuring information.
And I'm not I'm going to stop short of saying the universe is information.
That's what it's its fundamental identity.
But it should be obvious that that perspective is very useful to entertain for a broad variety of reasons and purposes.
I hope to continue to speak more about meta languages in future recordings and to explore perhaps music and dance and acting and so forth as metalinguistic painting is certainly humor is in a way metalinguistic.
So there's a direction in cognition that leads to the above of how we're usually playing in and with language.
And there are many branches of that tree that hold great promise to liberate us from the otherwise enforced oppressions of our habits cultures and milieu.
As always I'm so grateful to have this time together.
I don't take it for granted.
I look forward to learning together again very soon.
Thank you for joining me.
Have a beautiful way.
Bye for now.
