Hello, everyone, welcome.
I'm walking around in the city I live in, in the evening.
I guess we're inside rush hour, maybe?
Time.
I think nearly all the things that humans refer to with language
are actually nothing like what the language implies they are.
Unless we take the language very superficially, such that we know, for example,
that the token tree refers to...
I point to a tree and say tree to someone like you.
That stuff works. It's functional.
And that's the basis of representational cognition and not actually the primary purpose of language.
In a way, if we're to try to understand the primary purpose of language,
one of the first things that comes to mind for me, and this is without having thought about it for more than 10 seconds,
it's primarily to structure behavior.
The only reason to have a token to point at a tree with is if we wish to draw attention to something.
It's pretty utilitarian from there.
We draw attention because we hope or need or intend to structure behavior of others and ourselves.
And that's not what I usually think. What I usually think is...
Actually, one of the things I was thinking just before I started recording this,
and thank you for bearing with me through the passing of the train,
what I usually think is, oh my God, why are animals like us this strange?
Why are we weirder than anime?
Far stranger than any of our representations, fashion, sport, war, porn, you name it.
Far weirder than anything we produce.
We create and maintain like a 19-story building of different layers of representations on top of reality.
And we do this all the time and think of it as de rigure.
This is how it is to be ordinary. This is how it is to be human. This is what we do.
The contexts in which we emerge...
You know, we're our journey beginning to some degree with our parents,
but also with the origin of time space and the galaxy and the solar system, the Earth and all of this.
What is I'm walking around right now?
The human animals, they're like straight up science fiction.
They're wearing layers of representations.
If you look, if you came to the Earth from another world, perhaps if you had seen many worlds,
a number of them would have something resembling the position that humans occupy presently in the biosphere.
I'm not sure. I suspect this to be so, though.
And I usually think as though it is that there are many other worlds where there is one or possibly evolutionary biologists will say no,
not possible, but one or two or perhaps three distinct forms of representational cognitive.
And by this I mean formally representational, right? They have an abstract language and so on.
It's funny, all of the people... I mean, it's very beautiful to see the humans.
But it's also very strange because we're really deeply physically weird.
Our behavior is not natural.
We behave primarily according to complex layered signaling arrays, some foundational, some superficial,
that from one dimension in consciousness we could be perceived to follow just like ants follow pheromone trails.
From one perspective in consciousness, you can focus on the confluence of the layers, the representational layers,
that instruct the thought and behavior, perception and relation of us humans.
And one of the foundational questions for me is...
Is the bird injured or is it just hungry?
Yeah, that wing's not folding right, is it? The bird's been... been injured, you know.
So one of the foundational questions kind of goes to the question of the existence of evil.
Did we fuck this up this badly ourselves?
Is this all us? Is it all on us?
Is there some feature of the universe or biology, absent, all possibilities of metaphysical extraterrestrial
or some non-human intelligence acting on us?
Where is the flaw in the beautiful crystal of our precious and tragic humanity?
I've got a... two, four, five... I've got an escort of ravens at present and I'm sure that walking down the street
people would think like, is this guy taking his birds for a walk?
Because they're actually just... for a while there they're just, you know, they're doing what comes naturally to them.
So let's go back to this layer.
Um...
Darren Brown is fundamentally what I would say is that he's a...
he specializes in structuring human perception.
Um, intentionally forging it into shapes he can easily manipulate to grand effect.
And I assure you that when he watches behavior of humans around him,
he has thoroughly simulated both the two perspectives that rarely occur to us ordinary folks to think about.
One is the opportunity to manipulate, confuse, take advantage of, so forth, that a criminal might have.
He has a criminal's... he can definitely adopt a criminal's perspective, a very sophisticated criminal's perspective,
and he has done so on purpose, on film previously.
But he has this other... I mean he's got a number of lenses operating at the same time.
He can see what is structuring, he can see how profoundly the humans around him, their behavior is structured without them being aware of it.
I am on a walk. I am in the city.
Because I am in the city, where I will walk is largely constrained by physical human infrastructure.
I will walk along one of three streets to get to... to get into the vicinity of X.
There will be traffic on those streets. It is a certain time of day, the city's a thriving map of little train tracks
that humans go back and forth across all the time, every day, on a schedule.
If you happen to see someone at the corner of, you know, Parnassus and Cole on Tuesday at 6.23 p.m.,
there's a very good chance you will see them there on Wednesday.
And an even better chance that you'll see them there on the next Tuesday, right around 6.20.
We are following in consciousness and behavior an array of protocols that are so constrictive
that if we could properly perceive them from outside them, we would see that most of our liberty is missing in action most of the time.
In other words, available accessible liberty, cognitive liberty, liberty of actual identity, of role, of meaningful relation,
of play, of creativity, all of these things, right? They are mostly locked down.
And the humans we call artists and sometimes performers and so on,
they are trying to remind us of a liberty we ourselves may rarely experience if we do not engage in creative thought and behavior
and play with other humans and for other humans and so forth and for other beings.
The artist who paints the tree is not merely painting a tree for humans,
though rational people might suppose as much.
It's a very complex situation, actually.
Right now my belly is resting against a tree I adore, a tree I've long known.
For the existence of whom I am profoundly happy.
We teach our children, our children learn from us by observing us.
I love the sound of other human languages. I love living in a place where I hear many of them.
Even though most of the languages similarly trap our minds,
they also provide that against which our intelligence may press to gain strength for a leap beyond representational cognition.
And in case it isn't obvious, the moments of glory in sports or in film or in art,
the expressions of profound superhuman achievement but also something divine flowing into something from beyond,
something transcendental to all of human experience flowing into a moment or an artifact such as, for example, a handmade piano
or more simply a pot, a clay, something we've made from clay.
I am here thinking of things made by hand.
One could argue, well, everything's made by hand because machines are made by hand.
Not the same thing. I get the idea. I get the comparison.
So, you know, I'm walking on paths. They're paved.
I could try to select the non-paved paths.
When in the gardens, one of my friends prefers to do that. I don't have a problem.
But through the city, it's going to be tough to do that.
And what I'm suggesting is that there's 15 layers of similar behavior going on in our cognition all day every day.
We think we have freedom of thought.
What we have is you can choose between these train tracks or those ones.
Both will cost you dearly.
Neither will deliver you to a meaningful destination most of the time.
Occasional, you might squeeze out an occasional win, which would mean liberty, insight.
Hmm, strange.
The fountain is acting very weird, Lou.
Films like Koyana Scotsi gave us a visual representation
of localizations of human behavior over time.
And we could see from that perspective very clearly that, generally speaking, the humans are following something quite explicitly.
However unique the individual participation, unique or normative, right?
The individual's participation, maybe.
You know, I like to think that...
Yeah, see, that's actually the whole problem right there.
I like to think.
The body is an energetic system.
For that system, physical relation is intelligent and intelligible.
Cognition, which you could think of as co-ignition, is different.
I'm not sure that the mind, whatever that might, we might decide that means.
And that's the kind of word that you really should, I really should take time to define.
Unless I'm going to be casual about it, about the topic, which for the moment I will be.
The mind may or may not.
I wouldn't be surprised to discover that humans have the ability to move the location,
the perceived or considered location of the mind around in the body.
Techniques such as focusing, TM, there's an actual discipline called focusing.
Employ, right?
Move the mind around in the body, what is felt there.
It can be a very powerful experience.
Now, does that mean that the mind actually leaves the brain?
Well, I'm not sure it's situated there to begin with.
And lots of other people aren't either.
What we think of as waking world awareness seems to have something to do with the brain,
such that if for some reason that shuts off, waking awareness often but not always ceases.
And in this case, we certainly don't want to project the often as the only.
This is what happens in so much of human cognition and part of why we follow these little train tracks around in thought.
I began to say that I like to think and it wasn't my goal to remark on my affinity for cogitation.
Rather, it was my goal to say that I like to think I'm capable of seeing outside some of the cages that we build and maintain and obey together.
And I also like to think that I don't just do that as a kind of ironic exercise of my proficiency I may or may not have, or may or may not have some degree of.
No, I like to think that I engage that way because I want to get outside the cage together.
And it's not my goal to cause depression or despair by painting the bars more clearly, or the structure more clearly.
Rather, my dearest dream is to engineer the kind of a jailbreak that the children inside us would come alive within and that all of our ancestors and companions, companion intelligences would cheer for.
Our species is laboring under the strange necessity of our prosthetic compulsions.
You know, there's a couple of animals in nature, there are very few animals in nature that do anything like what we do prosthetically.
And I guess if we were to survey many worlds and we saw the development of representational cognitive species, most of them would probably eventually develop an appendage capable of manipulating something like a tool with a fine degree of accuracy.
Though I can imagine that animals can adapt really well so that even if you can't use a tool with a great degree of accuracy, you can still probably manage to produce many different kinds of tools and prostheses.
One imagines a creature that, for example, doesn't have enough dexterity to get the screwdriver into the slot in the screw, but there are ways around that problem.
You can change the prosthesis so that it takes care of that, or you can re-forge it entirely so there's no slot.
But I guess my point here is just how astonishingly prosthetic our species is.
And I like to hope that I could find a way to take us out of the cages that we obey, but in order to do that I want us to see them.
Like perhaps like a non-human would see them actually.
It's true that I identify as human but only partly, and I think the much faster part of me isn't human, and I suspect that many people, if they felt safe and had the luxury of reflecting on this matter much,
they would probably, there would be broad consensus about this not merely human thing.
I don't intend to start a brand, though someone probably will.
It's always a race to the bottom for as long as products are part of the infrastructure that we tend to obey as moderns.
It's an infinitely self-accelerating race to ever-new lows as the towering irony of modernity approaches the tipping point.
And that actually does tip, but it tips into dimensions we might not be paying attention to.
It could be that the nature of apocalypse is little mini-apocalypse all over before a big one comes.
You might think of some sort of gambling situation where the gamblers decide not to bet on who gets elected president.
In fact, they just take all bets off the table, right?
I feel honestly inside myself, and perhaps this is a personal thing, but it's surely not merely a personal thing.
Our species is living on borrowed time literally, and we borrowed it from the ecologies, from their health.
We borrowed it from the thing we would absolutely need more than ever in our history.
At this particular time, our species has the strange capacity to dispose of all available water for frivolous purposes right before a drought.
And there are many peoples who do not do this, right? This is not a feature of the Bedouins who live in the Sahara Desert, for example.
In fact, such people are probably intimately aware of their dependence on each other for life, soul, food, water, shelter, protection, all kinds of things.
So they function as a single organism with unique members inside it or something.
The one thing you will never see them doing, probably, is anything resembling the wanton waste of water.
But I meant, I didn't just mean the water, I meant that whatever the hell is going on around us at this moment,
and I strongly suspect it's the recursion of a vast collection of misbehaviors over long periods of time by our species at the group level.
Whatever the hell is going on, you know, there's weather, right? Like there's solar weather, there's all kinds of layers of weather, not just the planetary stuff.
And, you know, if before a significant storm, you burn up all your boats to, I don't know what, defect to make booze with, right?
Then when the storms come, no one will be able to float.
The humans do follow something, you know, our technologies often reflect something we are doing inside our own minds.
And if you look at a circuit board and think carefully about your own behavior much of the time, you'll find a powerful resemblance there, most likely.
As if when we compose material objects technologically, it's not that we resemble the objects, right?
The precedence is on us. The objects resemble things we do inside and relationally and so forth.
But yeah, it's as if there's a couple layers, you know, our circuit boards are often multi-layered these days.
So yeah, what I'm talking about is the structure in those layers that the humans obey unconsciously until and unless they are given a taste of something outside it, not merely told about it.
If you give them a taste of life beyond the circuit board and mind beyond the circuit board and behavior outside the circuit board, identity outside the catalog that we are presented with by human culture,
they usually want a lot more. I know I do. Any glimpse I've ever gotten.
You know, Jorge Luis Borges, B-O-R-G-E-S, he wrote some brilliantly mesmeric fiction.
And he's someone who's fascinated with and capable of expressing very artfully some of the perspectives that are available metacognitively.
So, he imagines, for example, perhaps a book that contains all books in a library that contains all the libraries
where each book is one of the libraries, and the actual nature of what's going on in the origin place of our intelligence resembles that, but not incoherently.
It recursively restructures itself moment to moment to produce coherent transit between states.
And what we're trying to do with language is mostly structure human behavior, but in order for us to remain intelligent under the influence of such a force, we must intelligently unstructure the language too.
There's got to be something that pushes back and even decomposes the complex structured fossilizations of thought and consciousness, ideation and relational games like courtrooms or wars,
that we inherit when we take up a human language such as French or Portuguese.
The Asian languages, which I cannot speak confidently about, are different.
They more closely resemble glyphs. They are, in many cases, glyphs, or what in, I think, China and Japan are called ideograms, or actually we call them ideograms.
Those are different than words because their connotation web is physically specific, an ideogram.
Its connotation web is physically specific, and parts of its connotation web resemble its shape.
I want you to think very carefully about that property and the difference in an alphabet that isn't doing that and a system of ideograms that does.
Ideally, what you'd probably want is both and a third thing that could mix them, perhaps.
