though we humans, we have a great degree of latitude and luxury
in in our existence, even if our life is filled with trouble, possibly because it is filled with
trouble. We have degrees of freedom that are otherwise unavailable. So there's that threat.
There's the threat of this is an opportunity here you must use to liberate yourself and all beings.
And there's the threat of reincarnation and there's the threats of karma.
And these similar kinds of threats are weaponized in religions like Christianity and Judaism,
so on. Certainly any religion where there's an idea of sin.
In enlightenment we are beyond sin.
But before enlightenment, apparently, we are subject to karma.
And perhaps in some way we do not entirely evade it in enlightenment either.
It's not clear. Generally, it is said, no, it is entirely evaded, but this is a problem when we say
things. Saying things creates karma. So we have to be very careful about how and what we say
and where and when we say it.
Now I am home where the car is, which I will drive back to the restaurant I've just walked home from.
To obtain non-food and eat it
in a travesty of dining.
Perhaps I will take up the recording again after I've been through this tragedy.
So I have survived my journey.
In the very expensive truck to the fast food restaurant, two blocks from my house,
I acquired the non-food and consumed it.
And what does that have to do with the topic? Well, a little bit. I'll get to that in a minute.
First, I want to return to what I was referring to as weaponization.
If you want to convert humans to a cause,
the best traditional way is to threaten them.
Tell them what they won't get or the bad things that will happen to them
if they don't play ball, if they don't join you.
And so most of the religions are thoroughly weaponized at this point,
and they've undergone cycles and cycles of re-weaponization.
In Christianity, the weapon is hell. The goat is heaven.
In Eastern traditions,
the downside is reincarnation and endless lives of creating and burning through karma.
Not entirely endless, mostly endless for all intents and purposes.
And the reward is enlightenment.
And there's all kinds of levels of this going on.
And I'm not saying it's all bad. Some of it is certainly false. Perhaps most of it is false.
But there are layers to our lives and humanity and origin.
And in some of the transactional layers, these declarations, admonitions, urgings, and so on
have some degree of utility, even if in many of those places it's toxic.
Well, this is something that concerns me because I think it's not just my thought,
it's my experience and my awareness, excuse me, that there's something unimaginably valuable
to be sought within the scope of human lives.
And it's not really a discovery so much as a recollection. It's a remembering and being remembered
of what I refer to as the origin place.
And many would say, you've not gone far enough. No, you have to be free of even that.
And they're probably right. Again, humans tend to establish descriptions and narratives of an
unordinary experience or experience of the divine rather than letting it obliterate
the whole necessity of descriptions and narratives and admonitions and so on.
However, it's not my purpose here to explore karma or reincarnation or sin and salvation or any of those things.
But they're worthy of a mention because in most of the religions are
recruitment games and they're also games of us and them.
And I'm not a huge fan of those games that they have some utility
in certain narrow contexts. And it's fascinating to study them and understand
how they developed over time and what functions they served and how the stories got weaponized and why.
But again, not really my purpose here.
So a little while ago, I had a craving.
I'm not somebody who commonly eats fast food or unfood, as I prefer to call it.
But I had a craving and I satisfied it. Do I feel fulfilled modestly?
The big secret, however, the standing, it's not an elephant in the room, it's
the pot of whales in the room, is that all of our cravings have one root.
And that root is enlightenment.
Now, many of us have experienced something that we refer to as orgasm.
And in some phases of our lives, if not in all phases of them,
this is the immediately accessible transcendental experience.
It's transcendental in that for a brief instant, we are compelled,
even if against our will, though hopefully not so often, to ecstasy.
We're compelled to a moment of ecstasy.
And this can be addictive.
We may also employ it for things like stress relief
or the feeling of relaxation that often comes after an orgasm.
And some have said that the combination of sex and death
are the primary motivating factors in our transactional human lives, not untruely.
However, it's not merely sex that motivates us, it's love,
romance, a meaningful role in a meaningful relationship and so on.
What I'm getting at here, however, is something a bit different.
It's that all of our longings, all of our cravings, all of our urges, all of our desires
have a fundamental root that most of us will never taste in our lifetime.
We're getting the fast food version of fulfillment and that's toxic.
And whether or not that creates karma isn't really my concern in this discussion,
though we must imagine that if we're going to speak in those terms, it certainly does.
So in effect, we're having an array of experiences that incur various kinds of debt
that can't be avoided if we're looking from this perspective.
And so, for this reason, we keep getting reborn to work out previous debt
and then we incur new debt in that lifetime rather than working out the previous debt
and so on. It creates a cycle of suffering.
But that's not my point. That's the sort of threat version of it. My point is
all of our longings are longings for recollecting in this lifetime our original nature,
the true family of beings, to remember and be remembered to
what I call the origin world, which is my own little fairy tale.
But we might say to the essence and origin of being itself.
And so, we are not fulfilled. This is the problem. We're not fulfilled
by all of the little subterfuges that mimic particular angles on ecstasy, fulfillment,
satiation, enlightenment or the experience of being one with the divine.
And that experience is profound in ways it is impossible for people to imagine
in the same way that it would have been completely impossible. It was totally impossible for me
to imagine the orgasm until 13 I had one with a girl.
And even then, it was impossible for me to understand or imagine it.
It was a completely, it was something so completely outside of my experience
that I couldn't in any way, there was no way to entertain in consciousness what had happened
to me, literally no way. Now, this doesn't happen to everyone. Some people learn to have
orgasms in childhood or whatever, you know, they discover it sort of on their own.
And for many of these people, it becomes fairly compelling.
As a photograph of water is to being in the ocean,
so is orgasm to enlightenment. The ecstasy
of reunion with the divine answers every craving and exceeds all possible desire or hope.
Even in my limited experiences, which I could say are very limited,
the staggering breadth and infinite depth of ecstasy
was entirely unimaginable to me and makes things like psychedelic experience
look very tedious indeed by comparison.
So while we're running around seeking after stuff in our human lives,
we're unaware that there's a fundamental urge that transcends all others.
And it's the urge for reunion with our true nature, all beings in all of time,
the origin of being.
And perhaps there's a layer where we could talk about
or a sheath. One can imagine that the divinity is wrapped in sheaths.
And in one of these sheaths, there are things like gods and angels and avatars and things.
Beyond that sheath, pure, maybe pure is the wrong word,
something like absolute undifferentiated being or the potential,
the inexpressible and unexpressed potential
that is the source of universes.
It's not my goal, I often say this, in this conversation to
encourage anyone to seek enlightenment.
We all get to decide and we all do decide whether somewhat passively or somewhat actively
what our path will be and become in our lives.
And we're pulled along by currents and culture and technology and so on.
We're dragged around a bit by the nose.
But I wanted to just speak briefly toward this topic.
Because it's a part of my own path and it's something that I've been
intimately involved with for many decades now, if three is many or four.
If one became enlightened, what would they recognize?
Well, one thing is they would recognize that the idea, the felt sense, the belief in a separate
self cannot be true. It's impossible. Doesn't mean we won't have that experience.
And that at the layer of reality in which that experience occurs,
it seems perfectly valid and factual. The cement is hard under my feet, no doubt.
I don't have any feet and there's no cement, also no doubt.
Different traditions treat differently with what we might refer to as the transactional
layer of our human experience and the fundamental layer of our human experience.
And in the transactional layer, there's all kinds of polarities and conflicts and different
branches and myriads and myriads of them. In the fundamental layer, all those dissolve.
So one thing that might happen is that we become undeceived about the primacy of the separate
self, which is both the origin of many of our cravings and felt senses of deprivation and
desire and hope and fear and so on. So that that would be a great liberation by itself.
But another thing that is commonly said is
the recognition and awareness of things and beings and situations as they are.
The recognition of the absolute truth of things exactly as they are.
It as it is is a phrase sometimes used. This is a bit more confusing
because it does not involve the mind we walk around under the sway of in transactional life
in our waking world of common experience. It speaks toward a profound unsheathing of all sheaths.
And so what it is is both mysterious and unencompassable,
but one is aware of this it as oneself.
One mind, one's mind becomes all it is. No more conflict.
In Zen and many Enlightenment traditions we are concerned to some degree
with getting rid of grasping, hatred, fear, anger, delusion, ignorance
and embracing something unnameable.
The infinitely self-perfecting truth of origin, infinitely self-perfecting.
We have this idea of perfection. There are we need a better idea than that.
There are things that are ever more perfect every time we touch them or contact them.
There is something that absolutely transcends perfection
and we are that. But for most of our lives we will not know it.
We will not taste it. And this is tragic, seems tragic. If anything is tragic this is tragic.
And instead of quenching that thirst at the core of our being with the living water
of origin and our true nature, we will chase every other shadow. That's unfortunate.
It will not end well unless, as it is supposed and sometimes said,
all beings will be rescued from this.
Well, that's an eschatological concern. That's an end-of-time idea.
I am personally confident of something that resembles that, but I cannot comprehend it.
I only know it from an experience. I cannot consciously explain it.
Though there are those who will, I am not one of them.
It's interesting that in English the word and light and meant can be understood to mean
in light in the mind, a light in the mind. We have this comic book trope of the light bulb
going off above someone's head indicating insight, realization. But what I want you to understand
is that this trope comes from something real. It comes from suddenly having a living light
invade and pervade your mind, a transcendental light. By living I mean not alive in the way an
organism is alive, but rather the kind of light that necessarily produces universes and worlds
and organisms and minds and souls and all of these things as a mere side effect of what it is and does.
This kind of light.
And for some of us this light will be pure and for others it will be
associated with a being of some kind.
But I have experienced this light in the mind. Trust me when I say it exceeds all possible
dreams and hopes. Perhaps including the hope of enlightenment.
It's a self-transcending thing and there's some danger there too. Oh it's not my intent
to go on about that at the moment. I'll merely mention it. For the unprepared person, the sudden
onset of such light can easily lead to madness or grave tragedy. It doesn't necessarily
save us from our human predicament.
A living light in the mind that the mind is held within and educated by.
I have managed to traverse most of the topics within my original intent. So for now
I'll close the recording and wish you all wise dreams and ways.
Good paths and true relations. Hope, beauty and creativity and play.
Thank you for joining me. I look forward to learning together again sometime very soon.
