Hello everybody. Welcome. It's Friday night. According to the relatively bizarre and not
particularly meaningful distinctions we make in the days of the week. Traditionally, this is a night
when people like to let their hair down, so to speak. And I'm on my way on foot to a nearby
McDonald's. While some of you will cringe and others will cheer, others will be nonplussed.
I won't explain exactly why this is happening, why I'm doing this right now, because I don't think
it's relevant to what I want to talk about. What I thought I'd like to talk about briefly is the
idea of enlightenment. Now, we have ideas about many things. Kisses, dreams, birth, death. The
ideas are not the things. The tokens we use to point at stuff is not the stuff we point at.
There are some insect congregations here on the street of fairly surprising extent. It seems to be
mating time for a number of local beetles that could represent members of different species,
or unique morphs of a single species. Yeah, there's a whole bunch of cockroach-like beetle
mating going on around here right now. Clusters of beetles mating on the sidewalk. So, yeah,
I want to talk a little bit about enlightenment. But before I do, it's very important to understand
the distinction between the tokens we use in language that have undergone considerable
lossy artifacting over time, and usually continue to throughout our individual lives,
even in our own minds, and the stuff that stuff points to. We all understand that the word kiss
is not the experience of kissing or being kissed, or however you want to think about giving and
receiving there. We're both at once. We're trading back and forth. And similarly, the idea is about
enlightenment. Mostly have not much to do with enlightenment. Enlightenment isn't an idea,
in the same way that kissing is not an idea. Though we have the idea of enlightenment,
we have the idea of kissing. The idea of getting in water, say at the ocean, is nothing like getting
in the water. And we should bear this in mind when talking about topics of this nature.
I'll also say that I am at best poorly qualified to pursue or entertain this topic at length.
Yet, part of how I learn is by pursuing things I'm not qualified to understand or explain.
Fundamentally, there is no explanation for enlightenment. But we don't live in a fundamental
world. We live in a world of waking world experiences, habits of thinking, acting,
not acting, not thinking. We live in a world of screechy fan belts, cars and computers,
McDonald's and shopping centers, paved roads, half-tree-less streets. So, most of us are deeply
affected by the representational layer or cognition, the layer where we use tokens,
and often pretend that the tokens are the things they point at. Now, of course, there are different
sort of modes of enlightenment. For most of us, our intellect is not very well developed,
and there are methods of developing our intellect similar to methods of developing physical abilities,
that represent a quantum leap, so to speak, ahead of anything we're used to having going on with us.
So, although there is something like intellectual enlightenment, the dawning of a catastrophic
array of realizations and insights, where we don't merely level up, we establish a new
meaning of the idea of a level. And I think there's something similar to that with our
physical bodies and our relationships, even our relationship with language itself or thought.
Mathematics is an incredibly powerful array of tools, but very few of us know how to
usefully apply those tools. Most of us are not very well versed in them.
So, there are forms of enlightenment in all the aspects of our human nature.
But the enlightenment that I'll speak about today,
is absolutely beyond them, and yet, encompasses them, I think.
This is the enlightenment of traditions like Zan or Advaita Vedanta.
And what is meant by this kind of enlightenment cannot be reasonably described, though really
a wise person would not have anything to say about it, probably, though it would depend on the context.
There are useful, simple things we can say.
In our ordinary lives, it's as if a vehicle is riding the driver,
and the vehicle is what we might loosely refer to as our mind.
Of course, it's a complex of things. It's minds, habits, relationships, public face, private
face, concerns, all of these things. Habits are huge in this manifold.
Whether they're cognitive habits or physical habits,
effectively, nearly all of us are addicted to various forms of catastrophic ignorance,
or if we were going to use a more pejorative term, stupidity. I am too.
I'm simply aware that this is the case, which is sometimes helpful, not always.
So, the enlightenment that I'm referring to could be said to be something like
cutting through the mind.
Or even cutting off the mind. In Zen, one might hear the phrase, cut off the mind road.
Not by prohibition, not by prohibiting it, by settling so deeply and profoundly
that ordinary mental activity ceases. And somewhere in that cessation,
there is a dawning and a realization of what is sometimes called our true nature.
And in this realization, a deep liberation ensues, which for many people
is not merely lifelong. It is outside of time.
Now, of course, we hear stories and things about stuff like karma and birth and rebirth and so on.
And these topics are not my primary concern here, but I'll touch on them very briefly.
In the descriptions we hear of enlightenment, it is often said by someone that a deep abiding
enlightenment, if stabilized, releases us from the cycle of birth and death. No more incarnations.
It's not my purpose here to present or equivocate about that. It's merely useful to mention.
So, when people speak of enlightenment, and of course each person speaks differently in
different contexts for different purposes, if we ask ourselves, well, what are they generally
referring to? They are referring to the end of the domination of a variety of structured
aspects of mental and physical behavior and really subjugation. They speak of a moment
or an ongoing process of realization in which these features of our humanity cease
to have sway over us. They may still occur. We're simply not subjected to them anymore.
We are free beyond them. And also it resolves probably all questions. It may not answer them,
but beyond the normal haunts of our daily mind,
it seems, there is a field of transcendental intelligence
and something resembling living wisdom.
These are my own terms. We might not hear these from enlightened people.
And our mind becomes these ways of being. It transforms back into the beyond of the limitations
implicit in our ordinary thought, experience, and understanding, while again not excluding
our ordinary thought, experience, and understanding, encompassing it.
Fundamentally, however, it's a situation, it seems,
where our common mental activity and behavior comes to an abrupt halt
and something else or no thing else arises directly in and as our experience of being.
I have now made it to the McDonald's, so we will pause for a bit and I will take up the topic again shortly.
So in my journey to the McDonald's, I was taking a bit of a risk.
I was hopeful that it might be possible to walk to the McDonald's and eat inside the McDonald's,
but as it turns out, I have to drive to the McDonald's if I want to eat at McDonald's right now.
Now, we could argue that I lost the gamble, but it's a bit more complex than that. It really
depends on how we interpret the thing. For example, had I not chosen to walk here,
I would not be making this recording because I certainly would not be doing this in the truck.
So which thing has precedence?
Now, one of the reasons that I wanted to speak a bit about enlightenment is that the other
night in talking with my son, who studies Advaita Vedanta, and I am a probably 35-year student of
Zen, and by the way, I don't claim to know much about Zen. I certainly make no claims about
enlightenment. I've had a history of long practice and perhaps some experience too,
but nothing that I would think makes me an expert. In any case, I was talking with my son
and he was talking about listening to his favorite Swami, Swami Sarva Priyananda,
who I also listen to sometimes,
and a brilliant and wise soul, I believe.
And he was saying, you know, it's very frustrating, Swami gets frustrated with people because
first of all, they don't really understand what he's saying. They're like a leaky pot,
goes in one ear and out the other. He can repeat to them questions they have for Vedam,
but they cannot repeat to him the teachings that he gives them.
And all of them are concerned with matters that are effectively inhibiting their capacity
to understand him because they want, for example, to have specific questions answered and so on.
And hey, they may feel frustrated or confused.
Most of them want, very desperately, him to tell them what to do to get enlightenment.
I've been practicing for many years. I'm not making any progress. What do I have to do?
And fortunately or unfortunately, perhaps both and more,
his answer is not doable. His answers are not doable if he really addresses the question.
And it turns out that the process of seeking enlightenment is a deeply personal process.
However much it may have accord with a generalization,
it's going to be a personal thing. It's like the difference between a derrick in Hebrew,
which is a public road and a nativ, which is something one
establishes themselves, like finding your personal way through the wilderness.
All enlightenment experiences are nativs. They are both roads, right, the derrick and the nativ,
both roads. But the road that we will traverse to cut through the mind is not the road to McDonald's
that everyone is using. We will have to
invent the path ourselves and that will be a personal thing.
And he gives them very pragmatic advice sometimes, but mostly he will say there are practices that
are helpful and so on. And if you're the sort of person who wants to do practices and needs
practices, you can do these. They will benefit anyone. They're useful practices.
And there's all kinds of different paths you can take, but essentially
he will tell them something like sometimes he will say,
Right now, you are Ramad. If you simply understand this, you're done. That's it. You have to realize it,
you can't just think it. If you realize this, you will experience enlightenment. Now no one
is very well set up to do that. And he knows this. But he sometimes gets frustrated with his students
and as I was speaking with my son the other night, I came up with what I thought was a kind
of hilarious analogy that I wanted to share with my listeners. Imagine an oasis in the desert.
And it's a big, beautiful pool of clear, clean, cool water, probably surrounded by some vegetation
and such. And in this particular desert, there's a lot of thirsty horses. It's very hot. Now,
of course, we could ask ourselves why horses are in the desert and so on, or we could decide
that there's a lot of thirsty camels. But there's some big quadrupeds that are really thirsty.
And the pool is the Swami. Swami is the pure, undifferentiated potential of enlightenment.
And the Swami, the pool, wants to give the water, enlightenment, to the camels and horses.
Whoever comes to have a drink. Because the water will not only quench their thirst,
it will liberate them forever. If even one of them can drink of it, this is a great, beautiful thing.
But unfortunately, what happens is that the pool is very still. And because the pool is very still,
it forms a mirror. And so the horses smell the water. They come up to the water. The water
wants to give itself to the horses, wants them to have a drink. But as the horse bends down
in an attempt to drink the water, because of how still the pool is, it sees its own face.
And it thinks, or rather, it becomes confused. Seeing its own face in the water, it thinks
something like, I am not a drinkable thing. I cannot drink myself. Therefore, none of the horses
take a drink. The water is right there. The horses are right there. The camels, whoever. But every
time they look in the water, they see their own face, and this confuses them in this analogy.
Actual horses may differ. And so a very frustrating thing kind of ensues,
where the horses keep coming to the water, and they keep not getting any water,
and they're not getting liberated. And the Swami, or the pool, whoever that may be,
pure, undifferentiated potential itself as being, is aware of the reflection and the horses and the
water and the sky and the origin of being and liberation and all of these things. It's in the
horses. The water is the horses, too. So it's almost like the water is trying to rescue itself
in some way. But it just keeps going on. The horses show up. They look down in the water.
They see their face. They recoil. I can't drink myself. So nobody gets a drink.
The water just sits there very still. Horses come and go. No water is consumed in this analogy.
Now, this is an analogy of attempting to teach enlightenment.
It's not really an analogy about water.
Though there's some useful crossover there. Now, I think this is hilarious,
because I am just like those horses. I have had a drink or two of water,
but I am still like those horses. And most of us are. Many young monks and practitioners have a story
about early in their practice when they were first meditating.
They started to suddenly break through. They began to have the experience of breaking through the
mind. And not all of them, but a goodly portion of them, recoil in terror from this experience.
And the reason we recoil in terror, and I had an experience like this too,
it's not an ordinary terror, but it's a very powerful, hard to overcome fear
that this way lies death.
If I keep going in this experience, I will die right now.
It's probably not true, though some people fall unconscious during Satori,
which is a Japanese word for an experience of enlightenment.
I've had this experience a few different times. Once in my early days, sitting on the cushion
was Afu. Everything started to just become white. And, you know, the problem is sort of
like the problem you have in a dream, when you ask yourself, am I dreaming? Well, not
anymore. You just woke up because you asked yourself that question. So there's a weird problem
that sometimes arises in practice like this. The discriminating mind intrudes briefly, but that's
enough to break, you know, to dissolve whatever it is that arises when Satori ensues.
In a way, there's a degree of truth to it. That's probably the end of what we think of as the ego
and the id and all of this, or rather, it's the establishment of a position so far beyond them
that they will never be compelling anymore, even though they may still exist in us.
So really, what's afraid of dying is the small self. And, you know, rightfully so, that's what's
going to die at that event horizon. But it won't die forever. It's not physical death. And in fact,
really what's going on is the opposite thing is happening. We will be born into an eternal
aspect. That's not right. An eternal, well,
an uncollapsible superposition is one way of thinking of it.
But the little self, the the Darren of my waking world with his history and all of these things,
his knowledge, all of this, it does not die, but it becomes one can see through it.
Yeah, one can see through this now. And so one is no longer compelled by this and perhaps does not
identify it with it anymore. And perhaps, you know, maybe this is ego death, maybe.
And most of us will not in our lives seek enlightenment.
And the enlightenment traditions are a bit weaponized in that they
foment and table various threats. Well, they'll say things like, well,
a human birth is the rarest of rare events. It would be like dropping a penny in San Francisco
and having it land on Saturn. That's how rare a human birth is. And it's the most valuable
kind of birth you can possibly have, because it's the only birth from which enlightenment
is proximally accessible. The gods don't seek enlightenment because they are fulfilled.
And being constantly fulfilled, there's no necessity for seeking. There's nothing to be sought.
The animals and plants are driven by primarily by their the seeming brevity of their lifespans
and their structure. They don't have minds that are easily freed from moment to moment experience
to do any seeking other than that, that their forms compel compel them to.
The Blue Jay doesn't have a lot of time for deep reflection.
She is foraging or making Blue Jay children, raising them, so on, avoiding predators, so
