And I realized when she told me this, eventually, that there was going to be an elaborate subculture
and grading and trading and the economy and all kinds of hullabaloo.
Which, of course, there is.
Once the humans begin the process of commodifying an object, then there tends to grow around
that commodification, a subculture such as with tools, guns, cars, jewelry, shoes, clothing,
music, film, the internet, social media, all of these little subcultures spring up.
It's almost as if the universe designed an animal specifically just to represent things
to death, extinguish them via representation.
And I can just see Homo sapiens epitaph on their grave.
We took so many pictures of food that there wasn't any left.
There's a guy with a million pictures of his girlfriend and no actual girlfriend.
Or no relationship, no meaningful relationship with the woman he's taken photographs of.
And there's something like that that happens inside us with our own, you know, this is
what I meant when I was talking about the role thing in the absence of a context where
many noble and profound roles await our joining them, what we get is every kind of counterfeit
of this.
So you know, I understand lots of things that I don't usually say.
When I'm saying things, I'm probably primarily, I'm playing in the ballpark of language.
My son called me up and was complaining about some declaration or other.
And I said, yeah, it's not surprising to hear you say this because we both know that the
moment I start making face noises in English, I'm lying through my teeth by default.
The whole representational communication thing, while useful in certain branches of the pie
chart is exactly the opposite of what's required for the vast majority of the pie that actually
matters.
That language stuff is probably mostly for negotiating representational contexts.
There's some kind of weird, I think primarily masculine thing that I've experienced more
lately while walking, which is that joggers jog right into my personal space as if on
purpose, as if it's an intentional jab or, you know, which I think is kind of weird and
sort of makes me wonder if I might have accidentally become invisible.
Yeah, sometimes I was walking and there was a girl walking behind me earlier who was right
up in my physical space behind me.
I mean, she was, you know, three inches behind me or something.
And it's very peculiar.
Maybe I have become invisible.
I mean, it could be a benefit.
William S. Burroughs used to talk about this quite frequently, the capacity to be invisible.
He seemed to think that it depended primarily on who sees who first.
If you see them first, you can fade into the background.
If they see you first, it's going to be harder, something like that.
One imagines a beautiful science fiction story where a human being develops such a profound
sensitivity to an ability to not be seen, right?
That they become functionally invisible and can then move about among the humans undetected.
I mean, what could you do if you were undetected by the humans?
Of course, was it Ralph Ellis that wrote The Invisible Man?
We've had many science fiction stories of this kind of thing.
What would you do if, either A, you're invisible, or B, you could halt time for others while
still moving about freely yourself so that everything would around you.
You could just sort of snap your fingers and it would freeze.
Those things are possibly, both of those things could well be achievable by humans.
Not inconceivably in the physical layer, but certainly in the non-physical layer.
I think we're vastly more aware of observation.
You know, I think a lot of the people who have been brave enough to reach out and talk
with me, I know from experience that many of them felt quite intimidated and thought,
this guy's critical intelligence is going to size me up and rip me to shreds.
Nothing like who I am.
If we're being super intellectual together, we may get very critically, you know, we may
spin up our critical intelligences together, but I'm very softy.
I'm like a lovey, let's play, you know, let's goof around, let's have fun, let's see new
things for the person.
And I'm sure that in my blind ignorance and youthful hubris, I hurt many people's feelings.
Perhaps some of the people I love most with critical, a moment of critical indiscretion,
right, where I, it's really easy if you're not someone to see through the charade, the
difficulties in seeing through one's own and then being gentle and kind with the results.
I'm so grateful for this chance, this day, this moment to reflect and learn and grow together.
In this ever stranger adventure in all life, I can't treat you or your loved ones gently,
kindly, curiously, and as if you were, in fact, its own children.
Thank you for joining me.
I look forward to more adventures in the future.
Bye-bye for now.
