Hello everybody. Welcome. I was listening to the podcast by Chris Williamson and I cannot
recall the name of his guest. They were talking about primarily problems with men working with or
not just sort of ignoring their emotions. Emotional what? Defection and how when people get
uncomfortable today it's very common that they just turn to their phone and swipe around a bit as
if they're blurring the eyes with which they view their own interiority and a lot of this orbit's
shame. And all of this makes grand I mean clear sense to me everything they were saying.
And Chris was talking about something he had learned which was to set aside the urge to make
something land with an audience and the capacity to speak very eloquently which are both things he
does well and practices regularly and they have you know fairly good payoffs in terms of the range
of behaviors we could engage in. Not bad you get some social cachet and attention and stuff and
these days that can be really profound but it can also be isolating. Most wings have two birds.
I'm not going to try to explain I think I think your subconscious will understand what I said
and obviously I do some of that and if you listen to some of my older recordings you'll see that I'm
a lot sharper mostly and sometimes very sharp. Occasionally I get a little bit of attenuation in
my intellect and its perspectives these days and produce something that I'm more or less pleased
with as a creator content creator which is kind of an artist in a way. It's funny there's a
log on this trail and the part that faces the trail this may be four feet in breadth or width
and two feet across and it has two semi circular-ish cuts right and every time peripherally that I
that I walk past this log it looks to my peripheral intelligence like a woman is in a kind of a
robe or a shawl is sitting there and it's weird because it happens to me almost every day
so my peripheral you know this is so important alright so I was listening to Chris and he was
talking about being clumsy being willing like when he's with a therapist to take off the stop
dancing on stage right to get little rewards from the you know visiting authority
to speak haltingly to have finished sentences to abandon declarations that he doesn't truly
have faith in in mid-sentence and so forth so that actual exploration can occur instead of
game-playing and you know the arts of therapeutic awareness are rich deep in ancient it's almost
hard to go wrong in a sense because unless your therapist is really bad or they're like
checked out right which is possible but unless they're really checked out it's likely to go
well for the simple reason that even if you're relatively skillfully introspective it's really
easy for someone outside you to see features of the situation from angles you have never
inhabited perspectively or purposeively right what people would call agent in an agent way
not sure I love that that language but sometimes I don't mind it in those places where it's useful
and so you can see that what I'm already doing here is kind of taking myself apart
in the sense of inhibiting most of my usual game although you know I'm capable of grandstanding and
sort of one manning the show or so forth and sometimes that goes really well but also sometimes
my heart's not really in it yet and I can still stumble through the the presentation but I'm not
happy I mean I got I mean what what am I doing here anyway as I've mentioned in a sense
I'm trying to work features of my thought speech and linguistic activity my vocabulary my memory
my perception perspective my perspectival skills I'm trying to work them so they don't disappear
and that may sound tragic or whatever and I don't expect others to be thrilled
though sometimes I hope they might get a little gem or two that they themselves can make
wise use of or you know really is helpful in some way or helps them to understand
feelings or thoughts they've had or even you know fundamental concerns like why is there
why are humans mean why is there badness in the world why is there injustice why is there
harm and wrongdoing all these things
and and you know some of the grave curiosities to what is light what is intelligence
how can we think about these matters in new ways together for useful purposes or exciting
you know memory and amnesis or discoveries right recognitions of
perhaps uh stuff that sits far beyond representational thoughts ordinary pervues
there I go being articulate my articulate guy got spun up in um in transactional analysis
which is a very useful framework to explore I'm not sure I tend to not get really committed
in a cult-like way to any specific framework but lots of them have really important toys and
tools to play with and in transactional analysis there's a sort of persona segment if you will
um called the little professor and it must be really embarrassing for people who are aware
of this to observe me in my uh in my babblings my my daytime um so they call those things in
Australia a wander right because they can see um
what I can also see which is a lot of the time quote I'm dancing as fast as I can
unquote which is a sign that something fundamental has gone sideways right um otherwise
we dance so much more naturally
this afternoon I was doing tai chi which I often do in the botanical gardens
and practicing tai chi and there's a couple of young probably adolescentish ravens
and they're huge because the adolescents are giant giant like one and a half times the size
of the adults or something more um and the male is particularly fond of me
um he'll walk over and fluff up and he's he's gotten to know me not because I'm
mr magic bird man but because I gave them peanuts really good peanuts too
so they know me and they'll come over and hang out uh although these days usually it's just the
male and he'll fluff up like he does when his parents are doing a flyby and just hang out
and I'll do tai chi and occasionally throw him a peanut now what ended up happening today look
one of the reasons in a way I am a little bit on stage when I'm doing that
um people come to San Francisco for local color and I'm happy to fill that role a little bit once
in a while um but I'm really there to practice tai chi and also to see the people and the place
and the sky and so forth yeah so today I was practicing and the young male was very close
to me probably within like two and a half feet and people were looking at the situation and it
probably looked really magical there's this guy engaged in a behavior that looks kind of magical
by itself and now there's this bird just hanging out right there with them right
and so and many people probably haven't even seen ravens so the big you know purple black
uh adolescent raven is quite a sight to see
so I'm like hanging out doing tai chi and the ravens and puffing up and sort of dancing around
a little bit with me and people are you know getting out their cameras and stuff not too many
there's like a couple a couple of couplets maybe three over the span and uh I realized
which is such a funny thing to say because the um the structure of the phrase has a kind of uh
possibly schizophrenic onomatopoeia um if I've got those two things right uh because it
to realize is it is as if one is seeing with actual eyes which are not merely the physical ones
and not merely the ones we normally employ not necessarily to see something but to um what to
to uh
to see something from outside yeah to see the features that are invisible to us if we are inside
it there are many sorts of different kinds of eyes we can have inside ourselves and
although it sounds metaphoric you know it's also there are certain kinds of hands we can
have inside ourselves certain kinds of noses and ears ways of hearing ways of sensing flavors
of things and of course all of these all of this language is figurative but it's very useful
because it helps us to realize that there's other ways of seeing and thus also other ways of being
near at hand if we should simply observe our biases and predilections and historical
um constructs topologies of emotion that we are usually if we are not paying very close
attention we are either trapped in or we're having such a good time that we don't have to look there
or we're having such a bad time that we um want to defect further into whatever it is you know you
can there's all kinds of ways that you can defect into math if you really want to you can defect
into computer science or any any discipline but you can also defect into isolation and
the various painful addictions that humans are subject to when they are hurting inside
many of which i have had experience with
wow
here we go
As human beings, we are inclined to roll, roll formation, roll inaction, roll fulfillment,
roll interference.
And there's something else I wanted to mention that came up in the podcast I was listening
to, and I think it was Chris, who said something dangerously insightful and kind of undesirable
that I heard, which was, language is a way of not getting things done.
Now of course, there is this kind of, I talk a lot, but what do I do think, and there's
a way in which people who are very artful in conversation may be displacing their agency
so that they don't actually accomplish things.
And one of the kinds of therapy they were talking about was, I can't remember what it's actually
called, and it's something very simple.
Like intensive, something like intensive activity therapy, but the basic idea is just to get
men doing things with their bodies.
And I've been aware of this principle because it doesn't, I mean, good luck employing talk
therapy with someone who's actually schizophrenic.
It's not impossible, it's very unlikely to be effective.
They already have enough talking kind of going on, and maybe more than enough.
So if you can get them doing, if you can get them engaging in activities at which they
can, which have a beginning, middle, and an end, and there's a sort of conclusion, and
at the conclusion there's some benefit, and most, you know, lots and lots, there's vast
myriads of activities like this, right, just where if you just move your body, do something
with your body, clean the kitchen, whatever, go for a walk.
And it doesn't have to be about like I'm active or I'm slovenly or I'm, you know, languishing.
Rather it's just the experience of having activity that is, that engages you physically,
and the body seems to work through some of its emotional backlog that way.
And of course, you know, there's a branch, there's a spectrum of this where it becomes
very extreme, and people, for example, may be constantly cleaning.
But that made sense, and the thing that was said about, like as a writer, okay, which
I am, I call myself this, here's a role, right, that I conceived, it has a beginning,
a middle, an end, you begin to write, you work on it, you finish it, so forth.
But as a writer, it's kind of a scary thing to hear because I do spend some of my creativity,
so to speak, I do invest some of my creativity in both my recordings and also conversations
with friends.
And some of them are more comedic, and some of them are more intellectual, and some of
them are more philosophical, and most of them have all three components.
And sometimes, if we're close, there'll be a little bit of what you might call nudging
each other, poking each other, playful, I don't know, playful disparagement or highlighting
of flaws, and sometimes playful self-disparagement, too.
So, I was doing Tai Chi, and the people were watching, and I realized, they don't know,
they think something, probably, magical is going on, and I'm not claiming nothing magical
is going on, but I'm also not claiming that I'm the great, you know, raven-attracting
magician.
So I don't mind playing Birdman of San Francisco occasionally.
Lots of birds around here know me, but I'm very, it seems very unlikely that they would
know me if I had not brought them food and played with them a bit with the food.
You know, food is kind of an offering, but it's also much more, what, much more efficaciously
it structures nervous systems.
In previous recordings, I've talked about situations where I was creating danger by
bringing something that animals couldn't reasonably say no to, and you see this problem with humans
all the time in our representational cultures.
And today, when the young raven was with me, and I don't know how smart he is about the
predators yet, it's not clear that he recognizes them.
And I think he's also somewhat bemused when we are together, because he's all fluffed
up, and he's not all fluffed up by accident, something's going on, it's making him fluffy.
So I saw a young hot, well, I don't know if it was young.
I saw a small, what looked like a small red tail, scope him and come to a nearby perch.
And it was not at all clear to me that he was aware of that.
And I'm not claiming my perspective was pristine, but my sense was this young bird is in danger
right now.
That hawk realizes that teenage ravens, while, you know, a plausibly difficult prey item,
make a good meal, can be captured and so forth.
The only thing that comforts me in hindsight is that the hawk probably prefers to strike
from altitude at prey rather than to sort of swoop in from a nearby tree at not high
speed, and then grapple with a raven who's got a very sharp, tearing beak.
I suspect that if hawks take teenager full-grown ravens or as food, they'd probably try to
strike them at high velocity and shock them, knock the wind out of them, and then see what
can be done and be my guess.
But I was aware that showing off puts people in danger under certain circumstances.
And perhaps that's part of a story that I have in my mind that I take seriously.
Perhaps as is probably obvious, I've always been a bit, like when I was a little child,
one of the things I really wanted to be was a singer.
And what does that mean?
Does it mean that I want to sing or I want to be seen as one who sings?
Or is it both?
It's more, and obviously it's more, but I do seem to have some kind of an affinity,
a natural inclination to seek an expressive position.
I want to shine, create, play, especially with others, which is something I miss a lot.
That used to happen pretty frequently when I first came to the city.
So I have that inclination generally.
And it's also nice to be seen.
I think us humans are uniquely, that may not be that unique, it could be very common among
all animals who are social together, but we really benefit from positive observation.
And many of us may not get much of that in our daily lives.
And so that's part of what's going on with me as well.
I'm getting a little bit of that human sunlight.
When I was in the Central Valley, I could go for very long walks, 10 miles or something,
and really not see a single human face.
And when I walk here, there are many faces.
Not all of them want contact, and I don't always want contact.
But that sunlight, the sunlight of positive human attention, or at least something like
the negative attention is missing, is very refreshing and restorative.
When humans talk about shoes, they're talking about something really fundamental.
If you want to know something about someone, look at their shoe collection.
You will learn a lot.
I'm not even going to go into the shoe hoarding behavior.
And the fact, I'm not going to say anything about the things I'm actually going to say.
I have a shoe hoarding.
I can't throw those away, those are part of my body.
A friend of mine has recently begun collecting sea glass.
It's modified by the ocean.
