Hey everybody.
I'm here at the lawn bowling fields.
Here's the entire Geranium Nation.
And as you can see, just like ours, it's divided into right and left.
But which one's right and which one's left depends on where you're standing.
You know, when I stand across from someone, my right becomes their left.
And so we have to reverse if we want to know, for example, which side of their face is the right side.
And it's unfortunate that we have this idea of rightness transferred.
And in case you didn't notice, right-handedness is dominant, so that's an in-group.
And it's an in-group we corral children into who might have been ambidextrous or left-handed.
Yeah, great, great stuff.
But important to think about because we're bilaterally symmetrical animals.
But there is actually this idea that the right side is right.
And I don't know if this trope, I don't know, I'd love to see the examples of languages in which this trope doesn't transfer, right?
In which, for example, the word used to refer to the right side of our bodies is not the same word that is used to indicate the good, the true, the correct, the authorized, the orthodox, the trustworthy.
Now, if I'm standing beside someone, which is, for animals, far, far less confrontational in a general way than standing in front of them, then what?
Well, I'm still in a situation where my left hand is on the side that their right hand is on.
And if I'm on the other side, then my right hand is on the side their left hand is on.
Now, I've accidentally wandered into a topic where the idea of good or true or correct has become involved.
And it is part of my purpose to explore that.
We are strangely born of conflicts.
Our bilateral symmetry is an adaptation to the circumstances evolutionarily and environmentally on Earth.
And unless I miss my guess, here most complex organisms embody it.
They're bilaterally symmetrical.
They're mirror reflections, right?
Each side of them is like a mirroring of the other side, presuming there are sides at all.
We first must invoke the idea of sides before we become capable of awareness of symmetry,
at least of conscious or linguistic awareness of it.
But to walk, I don't move both my feet at the same time, though I might to jump.
And so precedence is traded off back and forth between the aspects of my body when I'm walking.
Now, we're so deeply divided in a sense, though I think there's a much better word than divided.
There is the idea that when two conflicting aspects are joined,
there's a superposition above precedence of one or the other from which otherwise impossible abilities obtain or can be realized.
And this is, in my view, an analogy drawn from nature.
I think our people easily become confused and distracted by the idea of conflict,
presuming erroneously and catastrophically that the goal of conflict is for one side to win.
Well, the analogy of that in my body would be a stroke. One side wins.
One has a stroke either on the right or left hemisphere.
In many cases, they lose the capacity to move the opposite side of the body, which is what belongs to the hemisphere in question.
If they have a stroke on the right hemisphere, they'll be likely to be able to continue to understand language and things and admit it.
And if they have a stroke on the left hemisphere, they're likely to lose the capacity to speak.
So, faculties, though both of our hemispheres participate in them,
most of them, they appear to be at least fuzzily localized and may in fact be a result of the difference, right?
The differential between the two sides of our corpus callosum, surface wrinkly stuff of our brains.
But the idea of correctness is a bizarre idea when made explicit
and a useful principle, meaning it stays fuzzy and gets inflected by intuition and context and moment and surroundings and all kinds of factors that I could go on naming in a very tedious way for a long time.
Strangely, in our language, correctness is associated with the right side of the body.
And I suspect it's true in at least a few western languages, if not broadly true.
Principles can be useful conveniences. Rules rob us of sensitivity and liberty.
And we can even have self-ironizing rules, like everyone must have liberty.
When rules become explicit, our interiority and our consciousness collapses either into obedience or rebellion.
Hopefully that sounds at least modestly religious.
Because we are creatures habituated to a usually relatively superficial relationship with language,
the language in which we think about things and our responses to language we read or hear
produce an effect I'll refer to as framing, right?
And in some cases, language can induce frame collapse.
And I'll give you a toy-like example of that.
But for anyone who's not inhabiting the position above the language in which they hopefully with awareness and intelligence
have a more selective and volitional relationship with language and its meanings and possibilities.
And I'm referring to, I don't know, 90% of people, maybe, 70 at least.
For them, language collapses the frame all the time.
And so that means essentially they don't really have the opportunity to have something like a mind.
And if language itself doesn't do it, then concepts do.
And if that doesn't do it, then ideas do, right?
It's really easy to collapse the incredible, accessible superpositions of human consciousness down into these little concretized demon-like things
that swarm about in populations and even in individuals,
turning the possibility of the infinite degrees of freedom
innate in our humanity and our capacity for consciousness,
not merely consciousness, but self-consciousness, reflexive consciousness, consciousness of being conscious.
And positions above that that we have no way to talk about, we can only reach for an inhabitant.
Cultures are experiences of rules and frameworks for validation, authorization, justification.
All of these things have a framing effect on nearly everyone who is awake in the sense of, you know, not being physically asleep.
And our dreaming each night is wrestling with that nemesis monster, right?
It's wrestling with that metropolis of swarming frameworks and frames and concepts and ideas and identities, right?
That's a tree, it's a woodpecker, this is wrong, this is right.
And we simulated an internal courtroom because most of us were taught that that's how you figure out whether something's wrong or right.
And if we weren't taught by the courtroom, we were taught by the book of the law, right?
We were taught by the Bible, the Quran, the Talmud, the Dao De Ching.
We were taught by books in language, all of which are incredibly ambiguous.
And can be turned to almost any perspective you want to turn them for nearly any purpose you wish to, including weaponizing them.
Including weaponizing them to become processes in human culture that continuously feed on the minds and lives of the beings they convert.
Where they do not, in fact, prosper or enlighten them.
There are edge cases, it's not all bad.
And that's one of the differences between principles and rules.
Principles are the result of a perspective of concern or awareness or memory.
Rules are a different thing, they collapse the frame.
So, if you always obey a rule, well, this is where language gets complicated.
One can't merely say rules are bad.
What we can say is, if followed explicitly, they usually lead to self-confident addiction and catastrophe.
So a long time ago in Star Trek, when it was first on television in the 60s,
and it was a big deal back then, because it was providing social commentary.
However, nostalgically naive, some of it might seem today.
It was a big deal back then.
And Starfleet, which is the sort of navy version of the unified Federation of Planets, the good guys, so to speak.
The right, the right people.
Anyway, they gave a captain a ship and they said, look, you have to obey our directives.
Until and unless you encounter a situation for which they're insufficient.
So there was a principle and there was a doorway out of it.
Now, that's an incredibly simplified and very collapsed frame, but it gives you an idea of, you know, the difference between slavery and autonomy.
A difference within that array of concerns.
Do the right thing.
Do the right thing.
It's almost impossible to, I mean, because it doesn't say do a right thing, it says do the right thing.
Like there's just one right thing to be done, really, okay?
See the frame collapse?
I'm gonna collapse the frame a little more clearly here for a second using language by posing a toy.
And the toy is this sentence is meaningless.
Now, does language decide for us its own value?
Can it?
In other words, can language jump up above minds and declare facts to them?
The way this statement and many of the ideas presently popular do.
You see the frame collapse?
It doesn't just collapse the cloud of ambiguity and concern and perspective and awareness and intention and motivation and memory.
It doesn't just collapse that into language, which is already an astonishing collapse.
No, it actually collapses minds themselves into language, proposing that language tells minds what to read,
what to, how to interpret it, which thankfully is not so.
But you can see the collapse.
And if we naively accept the frame collapsing stuff that's going on all around us,
which is actually an attempt at disambiguating the incredible swarming, seething ambiguity that is the nature of life,
even when it reliably stays together around me, you know, doesn't just dissolve suddenly into chaos, hopefully.
So that mess, that metropolis that the dreaming mind has to, you know, try to ameliorate and try to heal every night.
And by the way, this is what our dreams are about.
You don't have to take my word for it.
Just play with the perspective and see what happens for you.
This metropolis of frames and frame collapse and bizarre abstraction intrudes into what we might otherwise experience as astonishingly spacious,
liberated and liberating awareness and medicinal heartfulness and natural humility and reverence and awe and wonder and play and ecstasy.
No, we get the metropolis mostly instead.
And all of its imperatives and projects, which include sacrificing ourself to it.
In case that wasn't clear, because if as a human being, you don't have the opportunity to explore and discover the unimaginable faculties available to you as consciousness,
then you have been deprived of what is among the most fundamental of our, of the essence.
You know, we were being deprived of the fundamental essence.
Not merely of our nature as animals, but of our nature as human beings.
So anything that can return a little bit of that liberty to us authentically is profoundly medicinal.
And I'm very interested in, in that goal, in that future, in this present moment.
Like someone who watches birds, who've had their wings bound to their bodies all their lives, since how I feel about our people.
And many brave women and men throughout history have shared this vision and this passion, this intention.
And some have succeeded, even though their voices are overwhelmed by the noise floor of a culture driven too easily by nothing other than the language we use to communicate.
Well, I think most of the communication is pretending.
And what really communicates is our bodies, that left-right thing.
People use the right side of their face differently than they use the left side of their face in conversation.
And so too in their body, with relating with other people in what we call body language.
Really, it's as if there are three people.
The right side person, the left side person, and the often neglected superposition above them that upon which they both depend and which they both transform and create together.
And we can do something like this as individual humans. We can make these little superpositions.
We do it all the time. We're just not necessarily aware of how powerful or transformative it is.
Because in our minds, it seems normal, we've normalized it.
It's not normal.
Or rather, it's non-ordinary, even though it is among the most ordinary things that humans do all day.
They just don't do it freely. They do it mostly according to habits and frameworks and the results of frame collapse and all kinds of crap like this.
Sort of like broken robots.
Mostly robotic, but some modicum of free will left that is easily deflected by causing them fear, outrage, desire, nostalgia, hatred, prejudice, bias.
All of these things.
How are we to contend with such a diverse library of threats?
Well, there isn't a rule for that. There's some principles.
So something occurred to me earlier while I was listening to a podcast.
It's not my intention here to recommend or oppose any given religion.
There's plenty of time for such conversations elsewhere.
But we might be a little bit confused about certain documents that underlie at least the Abrahamic religions.
And for this, for my purpose at the moment, I'm just going to talk about the Bible.
So for the in-group people, the people who say we are religious, we believe the Bible.
By the way, what an astonishing frame collapse. We believe a book.
I mean, that's a really weird thing to say because there's a lot of material in that book.
And lots of it stands in stark contrast to other parts of it.
And it would be very confusing if you took it as a book of laws to put it mildly.
But my goal here is just to notice that the in-group people revere the Bible,
perhaps seeing it as the authorized word of the actual being that created the universe.
Now, there's all kinds of complexity in there. It's not that all those people just believe one thing.
Some of them are capable of reading religious texts with a degree of detachment or curiosity or wonder or confusion.
And or some of them are capable of recognizing it as a inexplicable mystery,
even though it's written down in language and so forth.
So there's all kinds of interpretations over there.
And then most of the other people will see the Bible primarily as something like a dangerous disease.
And some people will see it as a kind of historical document.
But what I want to suggest for a moment is that I get to select the frames I want to use
in order to try to make the kinds of sense I'm looking for out of the existence of this incredibly bizarre packet of pages.
And it's a really puzzling one.
I don't have to be religious to be concerned about the Bible.
I don't have to be religious to be fascinated by the Bible.
I can be partly religious. I can be religious in the morning and an atheist at night.
I can do whatever I want with my awareness in relation to an artifact, particularly a historical artifact,
a very complex artifact that has all kinds of properties that are fascinatingly amazing,
even if I don't decide that this is the rule book, right?
That's a frame collapse.
So I'm going to keep an open frame for a moment above the Bible and talk very briefly about a couple of features of it that I find interesting.
Now I'm fascinated by the creation story, and I'm not going to delve too deeply into that.
But to me, that looks like the fragment of a lost array of books.
And I have the suspicion that the Bible itself is a, you know, there are books that were lost before it was constructed.
And I think there's evidence in the Bible itself about this.
So we may, in the very early stories, be looking at fragments of what were themselves once, you know, entire books.
And I suspect Genesis has this property.
And there's all kinds of fascinating ways to think about Genesis.
It's where the big accident happens, right?
And humanity is, well, of course, people call it a sin or an error or whatever.
And by the way, I just want to say the idea of reading books that were written in Hebrew and English is ridiculous.
I've done it, but I encourage people who are actually interested to learn the languages that the documents were written in.
And particularly Hebrew and Aramaic and I think a specific type of Greek.
Because there's no way to translate Hebrew into English.
And if you really think the Bible is the word of God, you should be reading in Hebrew.
In my view.
But it's not a rule, it's a principle, right?
