Like, how will you understand in Hebrew single letters have meanings?
I mean, they have numbers, they have complex entity or they have complex interiority that changes when you put them together and stuff like this.
It's really an astonishingly sophisticated.
And important to have an experience of language because then you realize like, oh, maybe there was a set of frame collapses over the evolution of language itself.
That led us to the mess we're in now with with it.
And that's certainly partly true.
Originally, Hebrew had incredible ambiguity because compared to written English, because the vowels weren't written.
They had to be supplied by a living mind.
Think about that for a moment.
That means there's no such thing as a written word.
If you don't complete it with your mind, the word isn't there.
How about that?
That sound interesting?
So it would probably be really difficult to make an explicit declaration in Hebrew, in written Hebrew.
Although I'm sure people who speak and write Hebrew will disagree with me about that.
But there's an incredible feature there, right?
That will not write the spirit words, the words that flow.
We'll write only where they stop.
Only kind of the consonants, the fricatives and such.
In any case.
The big mess in Genesis happens and we can think about this one way to look at it.
And it'd be good to have seven or eight, but I don't have that much time.
It's just that this is the onset of representational consciousness.
What happens at the tree is that we learn how to think about things as cut apart from one another.
We got the knife in our mind that allowed us to distinguish.
And that knife extinguishes unity first.
And not just one kind of unity, but maybe 50 or 60 forms of unity.
That would otherwise leap forth to our awareness and consciousness.
Once we begin the process of acquiring language and knowledge.
The faculties that comprise the origins of our awareness begin to collapse toward those frames.
And toward the processes of making, sustaining, defending, reinforcing these frames.
And this is what the dreaming mind comes at night to try to kind of wash away.
And it succeeds when we're children, right?
Because we don't have a huge frame collection yet.
We haven't been metropolized.
Coin that term now.
So there's the tree event, which I've covered elsewhere and I'll cover again.
But it's one way of thinking about it is it's the onset of the capacity to think.
And to feel distinct from everything.
To feel isolated alone, to isolate things, to compare them, to evaluate them.
To name them, to associate them with qualities.
Specific.
Denotated.
Explicit.
Concrete.
Declaration.
Total frame collapse into an artifact.
A token, right?
That's either a concept or a name or a taxonomy, so on.
Resulting in tokenization, right?
And this replaces awareness and consciousness.
So this is one way of looking at it.
There are many other useful ways, but right after that two children are born.
And these two children and the two sides of our bodies are very important.
To put it mildly.
Somehow, perhaps mystically, perhaps by incredible observation, perhaps by direct union with the divine.
The ancient Hebrews and indigenous peoples all over the world were aware that we're bipolar animals.
We're bisymmetrical, but we're also these two sides conflict.
And the story of Cain and Abel occurs.
And in this story, the guy who draws lines in the earth, who raises crops, kills his brother, who's much gentler.
And watches over flocks of animals, Abel or Hevel.
So, a bunch of stuff happens, the two children are born.
This story gets repeated in cultures that vastly predate the Bible.
Cain is like the right side, Abel's like the left, which is, by the way, the side without which you have no heart.
Also, probably the side in most of us associated with dreaming.
Cain kills his brother, becomes the progenitor of mankind, humanity, however you want to say it, our species, our cultures, primarily.
And then, so this is the crucial origin story.
And that's something that, believe it or not, happened to every single one of us in childhood.
But instead of happening in a nation, it happened in a cranium.
Eventually, the frame-like forces overcome the dreaming force.
Our imagination begins to die in various different ways, unique to each of us, and more severe in many of us than in others.
Artists often preserve more of this, creatively minded people, people who are playful, manage to preserve some aspect of Hevel's character in waking mind.
Again, these are just perspectives I'm suggesting for a moment, and I'm going somewhere with this.
So, at some point in my life, this hand began to dominate my activities, and I reinforced that, and it was reinforced by my parents and my peers in the tools and manipulable objects
that I would encounter, all of which were made for right-handed people.
So, if I'm allowed to form the frame above which I learned from the Bible, what I find is a record of the cognitive evolution of our species in chapters.
I don't find a book of laws or rules. I don't necessarily learn a whole bunch about the divine, but I do learn about our people and our history.
And the Bible's an infinite book. Actually, most books are infinite books, but the Bible's an infinite book in a peculiar way.
The nature of the mystery to which it refers absolutely resists disambiguation into declarations. Absolutely.
Language and concepts cannot encompass the mystery to which this book refers.
Therefore, no interpretation seems authoritative to me.
It's a mystery. It's a dream book from this perspective.
Now, there's two things that aren't ordinarily noticed about the Bible that I've long been aware of.
And the first is that it's a little bit like a children's book that shows the phases of development of the entire species over time from a given array of concerns and perspectives.
So it's like a book of hours for the lifespan of human beings.
But there's another really interesting feature of it, and that means that each of those chapters have to do with phases in the development of humanity over time, or they can be read this way.
And there's lots of interesting ways to read them. I just don't want us to think we have to either believe it or not, because that has nothing to do with the Bible.
That has to do with humans doing bizarre cult-like behavior and having in-groups and out-groups and us's and them's.
And those groups have some incredibly bizarre and catastrophically ignorant ideas and behaviors.
Not all of them, but most of them.
Martin, I love their acrobatic flight. It's incredible.
So it can be seen as a book of hours, and it can also be seen as a book of hours for the life of a single human being.
And again, from a particular array of concerns and perspectives.
Not telling us what to expect or what is, but offering us parables and analogies and tropes with which we might gain some insight about the nature of being human.
And then there's this weird third thing that I'll mention, that I find it rather surprising that it's not more widely suggested.
If you read the Bible carefully, you'll see this heartbeat happening.
And what the heartbeat is, or not what it is, but from this perspective, it takes on the appearance of the attempted resurrection of Abel.
Abel is killed. This is a big deal. It's the first murder in the Bible. It's the first lie in the Bible.
It's done by the guy who becomes apparently the father of all future people.
This might be a metaphysical being, a primordial being. It may not be a human.
And this mostly gets overlooked in religion. All of these three things that I've said.
Though I'm sure some people will have encountered similar ideas.
I think the last one is actually kind of the more radical one, where as you step through the Bible, you can feel this ebb and flow of the presence of Abel.
His spirit, his character.
Hevel, which actually means puff of vapor.
He's the cloud. He's uncollapsed to frameworks. He's transforming in atmosphere.
He's the flock on the landscape. He's the murmuration of birds in the sky.
The transforming shape, the dancing unity of thousands as one.
He's the superposition. He's the dreaming mind.
And he doesn't want to kill his brother, so he remains imprisoned for most of the day.
And his brother deals with all those frame thingies.
Now I'm just using the masculine gender. We can think of pain and able as women if we want.
You can play with the story however seems appropriate to you.
But there's this pulse in the Bible of the emergence both of humans, men mostly, sometimes women,
that either indirectly or quite directly represent Abel's character.
And one way to understand the birth of Christ is as the announcement to the world that Abel is now back online.
In the waking world that Abel is coming back online so to speak.
And thus will come to life again in each of us.
And the precedents will invert so that the gentle, intuitive, creative, playful participation, intimacy of Abel,
will guide the frame maker and will resist frame collapse in play as we did when we were children.
And of course, if indeed this perspective is useful and truthful, then what happens to Christ is tragically preordained.
Because at that time the world was seething with the wrath of Cain in a way.
And one of the weird things about Cain is it produces combatant like formations of humans and thought and perspective and belief that tear each other apart.
There's an old drama triangle going on here that might be important to have some insight about.
And the ancient peoples were aware that it was related to the sides of our bodies.
It's unknown whether they understood that this side of the brain related to this side of the body,
it seems likely though because it can be observed from injury, various kinds of injury from battle and misadventure.
So yeah, I just wanted to present these three perspectives on the Bible.
It's a profound document that can shed light on the development of human consciousness over the span that it reasonably covers.
And it gives us some insight, some kind of secret insights hidden in there all over the place for those curious enough to look at it as like a mysterious mirror rather than a set of declarations.
And this doesn't require anything like religion.
You don't have to believe in anything to have this experience of the Bible if you so desire.
And I'm not even recommending it.
I'm just putting this on the table so that there will be a few more perspectives other than this is the word of God or this is nonsense.
Because that's total frame collapse.
There's no way we're going to be able to make any sense out of something if those are the choices on the table.
I'm going to definitely invent like seven other choices.
That's a cage with one wall that I'm not walking into.
And I was just reflecting on the profundity of this, right?
The heartbeat of the resurrection of Abel in the Bible.
What that might mean for us if we became aware of the opportunities therein infigured.
It seems to pretend an astonishing liberation from the relatively cruel confines of language and conceptual thought when we are subject to them.
When they tell us what to think, believe or whether or whether they prime us by showing us a frame.
Knowing that makes an impression using that nuanced or subtle move to then intrude or invade into consciousness or belief and plant the seeds of metropolises and frame collapse.
And when that campaign succeeds, we are deprived of degrees of liberty, forms of liberty in consciousness and relation.
So concretely that we will not only forget they ever exist, we'll be incapable of imagining them.
And so we are then fodder.
We are then the victims of the frameworks and the institutions and the sort of false abstract crust like crystallizations of culture and economy and war and religion.
Our wings get glued to our backs.
So yeah, this heartbeat fascinates me and the book of hours fascinates me because I know whether or not I can map the entire book onto my life in a way that makes sense, which I've never actually tried to do.
It's pretty easy to see that Genesis happened to me and something like the apocalypse, the end of life, will happen to me.
And there was something like the resurgence of Abel in me and there was something like his inexplicable crucifixion in me.
So the analogy overall, it intrigues me. I'm not convinced, but it's intriguing.
And the same thing about, right, this is a map of the developmental arc of our species.
Maybe the apocalypse is forever. Maybe it's a morphogenesis.
Or maybe at the end our species transforms. It's not entirely clear. There seems some promise of that.
Right and left, right and wrong, good or bad, above and below, on my side, these figures in our language have priming energy.
They have priming effect, more so when we're unconscious of them and differently when we're conscious of them.
So these are my thoughts for the moment. I'm grateful to all my listeners and I hope you derive something exciting or fascinating or useful from
sharing time together, helping me get a little exercise in my body and my mind and maybe if I'm lucky, my consciousness.
Until next week, meet. Bye bye for now.
