causes, effects, and so on creates a layer in consciousness that is not real, but is profoundly
compelling because you can test various claims in physical reality to determine whether or not they
are true. This is a very limited form of truth and that's the problem. Not only is it a limited
form of truth, it's wildly incomplete and has the common feature of being catastrophically
narrow while appearing almost universally authoritative.
And that authoritative sense overwhelms our awareness and shrinks it down
to a tiny, crippled speck that appears godlike because there's truth value in there.
But what's the scope of the truth value? There is a monkey or I'll do something better. Here is
there is a car here. Its license plate number is 5GKX725. It's a van. It's maroon.
It reflects light. It's made of metal. I suspect there's an engine in there and probably fuel.
So those things are all true to my experience right now at the moment.
But all of that is merely a game with tokens. It doesn't help us understand
the nature of identity or our mind's involvement in deriving identity in language
from experience. That process of derivation is crucially important to understand because unless
you understand it, it overstands the mind and the mind becomes very confident in its little games of
assertion about identity, meaning, value, function, utility, danger, opportunity and so on. And once
that happens, we are trapped in a very minute portion of our natural capacities as beings,
organisms, animals, humans. So this is my concern.
I often speak of using certain kinds of analogies or metaphors as toys.
Language should be our toy, not our master. You wouldn't want to have the car drive you down the
freeway. Imagine seeing, you know, hundreds of thousands of humans carrying cars on their backs
down the freeway. This is the problem with knowledge and language in our time. Knowledge
and language are driving us. We are not playing with them. We are not using them to
use them to enhance and restore our capacities for intelligence as human beings and societies.
Quite the opposite is happening. We are being compelled to an ever more reductive and confusing
array of category errors and rhetorical, non, you know, errors, redological fallacies.
And this is so crippling that most human beings will never have any understanding of what a tree is
or a bird or their mind or its nature or its origin. And when I use these words like nature and
origin, I mean something explosively transcendental and infinitely unencompassable. We could never
catch up to it in language or categories. One might say it's not meant to be encompassed by
language, but that's not the point, even though it's true. It's impossible to encompass it in
language because it's an experiential thing. It's an experience. It's something we can participate
in directly. And we may be able to say some meaningful things about that participation,
but they will not encompass it. They'll be wildly incomplete. And like all of our speech acts,
their form and what they accomplish will be at once very narrow, usually, with some few exceptions,
and deceptively abstract. Imagine someone attempting to describe the greatest kiss they
ever experienced. Is that description a kiss? No. Are any of our descriptions the things we describe?
No. Are any of the words that we use, the things they refer to? No. Can they be? Almost never.
There are weird exceptions. Language can be folded back on itself in surprising ways.
I walked into the house the other day and on the kitchen table there was a piece of mail.
And printed on the back of this piece of paper was the statement,
This page intentionally left blank. And my son had written underneath it an arrow pointing to that
statement. And under the arrow he wrote, someone fucked up. If the page was intentionally left
blank, then why did they print that on it? And once they've printed that on it, the page is no
longer blank. This is the kind of weird problem we can have with abstract language, and particularly
with declarations. There's an astonishing and rich and deep irony in declarations.
This is pointed at by the Arcellian paradox. This statement is false.
The solution to that paradox is that no statement shall through self-reference or other means raise
itself to the order of a mind. Minds determine whether a statement is true or false. It's a limited
kind of determination, but statements don't determine their own truth or falsehood. Mines do.
So, one of the things that I wanted to bring to light in this conversation, or perhaps we could
call it an exploration, is that when we're deriving identity in thought or language, we need to realize
it's very useful to realize that our minds are inextricably woven in to that.
So that when we're referring to a tree or my foot or a pencil, we should notice that our awareness
is engaged in a peculiar form of playing with itself and structuring itself to produce
the process of derivation, formation of figures and tokens, description, declaration, and so on.
So that anything we refer to must necessarily, in a sense, be our own mind referring to itself.
This is difficult to, if I were sharper, I could produce a good analogy here,
and probably it would involve reflections, because in a sense the mind can be, our minds can be
understood as something like a peculiar kind of transcendental mirror in which figures arise,
are individuated, are related to and derived from other super figures, so that, for example,
you have to have a universe to have a tree or a hand. So there's a ladder that goes from the
everything to something, to this thing, to some category, to an array of possible tokens we can
use, to the one we select, and then out comes a statement like, here is a street lamp.
That tree is very important, because as we travel down the tree, two things are happening. One,
the categories and the instances that emerge from this process inherit properties from the
first position, everything, and they also inherit properties from the modes of distinction we employ,
the way we use the knife and the kinds of knives we use, the purposes for which we use them,
but they also lose communion and dimensionality as we travel down the tree, especially when
the endpoint is something very abstract or really just kind of dead tokens, and I think this was
impossible 10,000 years ago. There was almost no such thing as a dead token. A knife or even a tool
like a hammer had vast metaphysical implications and might have even been understood as a god,
or some transcendental being embodied in this form, and we think we've advanced by getting rid of
such superstitions, when in fact most of what's happened is that we've lost our minds. We're
left with a catalog of dead tokens, and more and more the world that humans produce and relate with
resembles that catalog, and we can't survive that, neither can the earth. Our intelligences
have no chance in a world like that.
So when we think about a thing, we should include the everything in it, the vast mysterious
incompleteness, the fundamentally transcendental nature of identity in our minds, the minds in which
we infigure and with which we derive and make some use of the process of derivation in consciousness
or in language together, and what are the good uses? Well the good uses lead us back into intelligence,
awareness, deep, rich participation in our lives and bodies and relationships and phenomenon,
and nearly none of those are getting any airplay. Yet, though every once in a while,
someone like you or me comes along who is capable of sustaining such concerns even
within the overwhelming milieu of derivative,
narrowing and denuding of experience in language thought and consciousness. Now I don't want to
give the impression that science and religion have nothing to contribute. They're just incredibly
dangerous. And I want to talk briefly about a specific kind of confusion that's common,
particularly to schizophrenics, but we're all subject to it. And this is the confusion of
the truth of a statement. Statement seems true. For example, I am wearing shoes right now.
That's a very narrow but nonetheless real truth. I am wearing shoes right now, it's a fact.
But it's easy to confuse the truth of that statement with truth itself or authoritative knowledge
and neither of those, let's see, that's a very dangerous game,
a game that tends to result in language driving us around.
So one proposition is
so one of the problems with our religions is that over time they became weaponized.
Hello Toby. Hey bud.
And what I mean by that is they came to include vast overarching universalized threats.
If you don't believe thus and such in this and if you do any of this catalog of things,
you will be eternally damned and will suffer for infinities of time in hell.
Fundamentally, this is a ridiculous idea, but in language it's very compelling because it
captures an aspect of human consciousness and awareness that is natural to all human beings.
The problem is that in many religions words in God get horribly mixed up so that
effectively words become God or God becomes words. And the bizarre incongruity of that
would seemingly keep us from making this mistake and yet somehow in millions of people
and billions of human lifetimes that's not what happens. The other thing happens. Words become
God and God becomes words. And once again we're being driven around now in our psyche
with concerns about our soul and immortality and reincarnation or heaven and hell, these kinds of
bizarre nonsensical ideas. Not to mention the fact that
the common idea, common ideas about what heaven and hell are, seem like actually bizarre fairy
tales and seem both implausible and unlikely. Not to mention the idea of God as a judge,
God as an accountant standing up there with a book or delegating this task to angels of some
kind to keep track of every good and bad thing a human does and then to add them all up at the end
and so on and so forth. This is an extremely disembodied left hemispheric nightmare of God.
Whatever God might be, it's exceptionally difficult for me to imagine that God is like that and yet
like all human beings or many human beings is probably a truer way of putting it,
I am susceptible to narratives like that. There's an aspect of our psyche and our consciousness
that is extremely vulnerable to this gambit, this kind of con game. And what I mean by it being
captured by religions and them weaponizing is if you can't convert people with beauty and ecstasy
and if you can't directly bring them into the presence of the divine experientially and with
their souls, then you bring weapons and you threaten them into conversion. And there's a long
history of the relationship between this kind of activity and schizophrenia and schizophrenics.
There's a lecture on this by Robert Sapolsky. You can look up schizophrenia and religion.
His lectures on this topic are interesting and schizophrenia is a topic I'm interested in.
Also, it's relationship to religion.
Now, I've wandered far afield here. Let me see if I can recover my thread network.
The usefulness of science
is limited by the intelligence of the societies that employ its findings.
And the dangers of scientific endeavor are radically exacerbated by the ignorance of such
societies. We might say something similar about religion. Both of them, in effect,
are attacks on the supercontainer. They're trying to tell us what everything is,
does, and is for and what the outcomes are.
Science tells us. Actually, science doesn't tell us anything ever.
Specific researchers make truth claims backed by research and analysis.
The rat in the supermarket of science is that research has to be interpreted, just like language
does. And we often find that initial interpretations were at best misguided and at worst, sometimes
completely backwards. It's very easy to get something upside down in science.
One example is we once thought that osteoclasts, the cells,
and of course the entire body is involved, but we think cells build bones. Well, it's true that
the osteoclasts are involved in bone reconstruction. And we thought originally that the osteoclasts must
be the smart cells and the osteoblasts that destroy bone must be kind of like we're little
robots. And we had that backwards. What it turned out to be was that the osteoblasts were laying
down the signaling molecules that effectively instructed the building cells where and how
and when to build bone. Apparently, religion never got anything backwards because it doesn't
go about correcting itself. It just goes about reiterating and doubling down and re-weaponizing
its previous declarations. There are exceptions, but they're extremely rare.
The nature of time space in the universe, birth and death, light and time,
minds and consciousness and awareness is ours to explore and develop.
The derivative declarations and models we are given by human societies are catastrophically
incomplete, where they are not overtly wrong. And part of the problem is that the nature of
time space in minds, light and all of these things, it's not representational. When we use
representational thought to engage with it with questions and research and so on, it isn't that
we can't make progress, but we're going in the wrong direction. We were born to fly in a thousand
dimensions and we live our lives crawling in four. And these dimensions are relational and
they're filled with other intelligences. Our language and ideation in the modern world
creates a situation in which it is nearly impossible for us to deeply experience this,
or to imagine it. Yet we should imagine it. Every night when we dream, universes emerge inside us
we see without eyes, we hear without ears, we eat without mouths, we have sex without organs.
What is the mind that it can invent universes inside us while we are sleeping?
Well, it's something far more profound than anything we've been thinking.
In fact, our thinking has led us in the wrong direction too often and very continuously.
So when we make things in the mind, we run the risk of our mind becoming thing-like
and that's a catastrophic loss of potential opportunity, insight, awareness and experience
of relationship. So bear this in mind the next time you think a house is what you think it is.
And when I say there are other layers to the identity of a tree, there are other layers to
all the things that humans make too. Houses are wounds, W-O-M-B. Those are a reiteration
of a process in nature that the humans have reified and objectified. Cars and motorcycles and such,
those are angels. They have faces. Look at the front of a car. Houses often have faces too.
The humans are reifying transcendental things they remember from before they were embodied,
but they're unaware of this fact. It's true even if something as simple as a pencil,
right? One end writes, the other end erases. It's a rod, sharp at the writing end, blunt at the
erasing end. This is an analogy that can be applied to our hemispheric distinction. The writing end
is very much like the left hemisphere and the process of writing. Now I'm using clumsy language
here. Certain left hemispheric affinities and aspects of function. And the eraser,
like the interruptive faculties of the right hemisphere that keep us from going completely
batshit and sane with narratives when they keep us from doing that, are much like that eraser.
The pencil is hexagonal. The eraser is round.
The sharpened tip is round and conical to a point. All of these things, all of these features,
these are readifications of qualities of the world of origin that we were familiar with
before we were embodied. And humans are incapable of inventing objects that do not include these
qualities yet. None of us are commonly aware of this. And the schizophrenics are catastrophically
aware of it in a way that's incoherent, right? They've got half the puzzle, but only half.
They can't see the relation to origin. They usually see the relation to threat.
Well, one might say their affinity network is
damaged. So that myriad affinities breed in their awareness and which ones breed
are often the ones that are most threatening. So their threat sentinel gets overwhelmed and
starts just producing mad correspondences everywhere. I've enjoyed this time together,
as I often do. I'm grateful to those of you who listen to my recordings and especially to
you who share or comment on them. And I look forward to continuing our journey of exploration
sometime soon. Thank you for joining me. Bye-bye for now.
