Hello everybody. Welcome. I'm out for a walk under the starry sky. I have my own special
constellation. Orion is the tail feathers of a huge two-headed bird in the sky. See if
you can see it sometime. This is the time of year when it's apparent. I call it Thunderbird.
The identity of the Thunderbird is something of a mystery. Of course we're using English to talk
about things that weren't spoken about in English. They did not arise from English. My topic this
evening is related to the problem of nouns. So I'm going to talk tonight about the problem of
things and what they are, which is a matter of identity and identification, language and habit.
Most of us are inclined to think about history in a way that I think is very confused. And I like
Owen Barfield's way of talking about this in his book, Saving the Appearances. A book I highly
recommend for those of you who are interested. And I'm not going to go into Owen's book very deeply,
but he brings up the problem of what is a rainbow. And there's various ways we can approach the question.
Most of us understand what a rainbow means if we hear this word. But if it's used in different
contexts, it means different things. But the phenomenon itself doesn't exist without a
participator. Somebody has to be participating to see a rainbow. Now it's not clear if the rest of
reality is like that or not. Some say yes. No participator, no reality. Some say no. The tree is
there whether anyone's looking or not. And that latter position is the one that seems sensible to
most moderns, which is gravely unfortunate for us. Our language posits the existence of separated
objects that we can sense or think of according to our predispositions and our purposes.
It's very unlikely that this is so. It's almost certain that at best that's a kind of cognitive
delusion. And at worst, it's so incoherent that it can't even be wrong. But again, our habits and
purposes inform how we cut the universe up into parts. And why we do that is fundamental to the
result, meaning the purpose we have in mind when we begin making cuts from the everything to something,
determine the species of something that we end up with. This is a very peculiar property of
human cognition. Quite surprising to look at carefully. In fact, so surprising that understanding
this deeply might not merely liberate us from the traps in which we've grown up and to which we've
become accustomed. It could do far more than that. It might connect us back to our own origin in a way
that is so astonishing that the world of separated objects and seeming individuals would disappear.
And what would arise in its place is a way of awareness and participation so astonishing that it
would obliterate the entirety of human religions. And all lexicons with them. Categories, classes,
instances, sets and subsets. Now, there's a somewhat natural but also somewhat artificial
pragmatism to the way we are trained and become accustomed to thinking about things. But there
are also lossy problems in our modernity. We've inherited a library of identities that has been
stripped of its original richness, depth and interdependence and produces in our minds a dead
world of largely inanimate and or utilitarian values, identities, experience. It's weird that
our language and the faculties that are involved in our representationally cognitive habits are so
powerful that they can transform and usually this transformation is one of denuding. They can
wreck our experience of life and relation, hope and faith, possibility, opportunity and reduce
them to a weird kind of accounting ledger. In order to make this clear, I'll have to give some kind
of an example. And before I do that, I'm going to go back and talk a little bit about history and
the presumption that humans have lived in the same world in the same way, essentially throughout
history. That cannot be true. One of the most important questions that I have chased is if I had
lived 50,000 years ago or 100,000 years ago, what would I have seen and imagined when I looked at
the night sky? What would the sky have been to me? It definitely would not have been time
space filled with stars like our sun and planets. It must have been incredibly mysterious and at
least as near to our time as 10,000 years ago or 5,000 years ago. Many people thought of it as an
ocean and that the earth was an island floating in a strange kind of meta water. Or at least this
is something we've been taught to consider or think. Barfield argues that the nature of human
awareness long ago was deeply informed by participation in the phenomenon of nature. And what does he
mean by this? Well, we can get some idea from his analogy of the rainbow. If you're not seeing it,
it's not there. Now, of course, someone could argue, yes, well, cameras could see it, but cameras
don't see. Cameras could image it. But the camera has no relationship with what it images. It's a
disembodied thing. And our languages, particularly in the modern time, have become catastrophically
disembodied and denuded of participation. So that when someone sees a tree, whether or not they
think of it as beautiful, they don't know what to do with it. What does it do? And we have scientific
explanations and such, while it photosynthesizes and it has root networks and mycological
relationships and insectival relationships, avian relationships, mammalian relationships,
and so on. If we're, you know, if we're thinking somewhat clinically. But what if a tree is a
radio? Or rather, what if a radio is less than a tree? What if a tree is 1000 kinds of radios,
alive, a living transport, bringing something we are too modern to consider the existence of,
down from the sky and into the earth, and something else so profound that were we to
discover it, science would be shattered up from the earth into the sky. And what if,
rather than thinking this, we could have a direct experience of it together. And I argue that we
can. Not only that we can, but probably for most of human history, our ancestors were deeply aware
of something like what I'm describing here. Now you can see how nearly no modern, very few
moderns anyway, unless they belong to some exotic way of knowing, would have any idea like this.
Never mind the experience of it. Though some people, under the influence of some moment of
ecstatic liberation from their modern mind, perhaps produced by accident or intoxicant,
maybe they've taken some dose of some kind of psychedelic. To these people, this kind of
thing might not only become apparent, it might become imperative. It might be the most important
thing they ever discovered. Now I'm not claiming that I have this experience all the time,
but after trying to understand more about what trees really are, outside of human
knowledge systems and linguistic classifications, eventually I realized, these are a physical
instancing, a local physical instancing of a transcendental community. Now I'm not asking you
to believe what I say, in fact that's not my important point. What I want to get back to is
the lossy compression of identity over time, produced in part by religion and in part by science.
For those who use science to derive identity, rather than to do research and make discoveries,
this is a different kind of, this is a different aspect of scientific thought,
and it's closer to scientism than it is to what we usually think of when we use the word science.
And long ago this idea had broader, richer, deeper, more dimensionalized, meaning having more
dimensions to it than it does today, and included metaphysical speculations and experiences and so
on. It would be hard to call what the Yanomami of South America did before we introduced Western
culture to them, science. But many of their shamans knew, intimately, over 5,000 plants and could
recognize and identify them and mix them together and cure hundreds of different kinds of health
conditions that we today with our scientific knowledge do not know how to cure. Of course,
they lived in an entirely different context in milieu, and their ways of knowing were neither
modern nor Western, nor European, they were indigenous, we might say. I remember the CEO
of Shaman Pharmaceuticals, a company that went down to work with indigenous shamans in a purported
attempt to preserve their ways of knowing, but also to find cures for diseases common in the West,
and particularly they were interested in diabetes, which of course probably almost never occurs in
Yanomami culture or didn't. And this was where I learned, at one of his lectures I learned that,
you know, the things that I'm saying here. And one of the things he mentioned is an old metaphysical
trope, which was that the appearance of certain plants gave clues to its medicinal value. Now,
of course, the Yanomami are not utilitarian, they don't, they don't go around thinking this plant is
an object that produces a chemical that solves a metabolic problem. That's not their way of being
in the world at all. I don't know what it's like to be in the mind of a Yanomami 200 years ago,
before the introduction of Western culture. But I can imagine that their world was deeply
participated, meaning they didn't make the kinds of cuts we make to produce identity number one.
And number two, their primary concern was not utility, it was relationship. And that's the
primary difference between a participated way of knowing, in which we are in relation with
beings and processes and nature and the sky and history in the future, or we've dissected it,
and are busy cataloging the anatomical properties and their utilitarian value.
Modern science does not have inherently a position on identity. However, the great utilitarian power
of experiment and research and reproducibility creates an aura of authority that seems inviolable,
of course, sugar causes metabolic problems. We can prove it. Give mice sugar,
watch the changes in their organs and mitochondria, and so on. So it's very compelling,
but wildly incomplete, and reduces relation to properties and values and accounting.
So what's happened to our lexicons, meaning what is meant by the word tree, bee, bear, whale,
island, ocean, mountain, sun, moon, star, the sky, dreaming, food, friend. All of these central
words that interlink to produce a hyper system of meaningful intelligence have lost their
relationships and dimensionality in the face of both science. Well, as a result of scientific
thought and the ways that we employ science in modern culture, religion, similarly. Both of
these ways of knowing generally are what I call attacks on the supercontainer. The fundamental
scientific position, not shared by all scientists, is that life in the universe are essentially a
mechanical accident. There's no meaning. There's no hyper structure of beings over time space.
There's no centralized web or family of intelligences involved. Yet everywhere we look,
this is what we see. If you just look at nature and give up metaphysics entirely, you will see a
vast, intimately relational web of deeply profound dimensionality. There's not 12 or 15 ways the
tree relates with a thousand life forms. There's a thousand ways the tree is in constant relation.
With the entire network of life, the history and future of life, and all beings. So something's gone
horribly wrong with human knowledge. And essentially what happened can be understood as a catastrophic
loss of kinds of meaning. In primary terms, like those I just listed. I remember once asking my
father what the sun was, he said it's a giant nuclear explosion in space. Scientifically, not
entirely inaccurate in terms of intelligence and identity. Woefully, terrifyingly flat. No
dimensionality there. No relationship. Now if he had said, the mind with which you asked that
question is a result of the sun. That would have been interesting. And not untrue. No sun,
no minds around here. No language, no worries about the lossy compression of tokens over time.
So part of my goal here is to reintroduce novelty in completeness, dimensionality, and participation
to the way we think about ordinary situations like an ant walking across the sidewalk. Or what we
see when we turn our heads toward the night sky. One of the problems here is we don't, in thinking
about identity, tend to include the mind that's doing the thinking. But that's the thing that
uses the knife that cuts the everything into something, selects the category, picks the lexicon,
chooses the purposes for which we make the cuts that separate things so that we can say that is a
tree. Unfortunately, most of us when we say that is a tree, once we've named it, we're done. That's
the end of the process. Having determined its name, we are finished. There is no further work to be
done. We don't believe in general the trees are mysterious, or that our ideas about trees are
woefully incomplete, or that our modern ideas about trees are catastrophically crippling to the
possibility of our awareness, intelligence, and relation with living beings in nature. But they
are. In fact, what I'm capable of saying about this comprises a cascade of understatements, even
though it sounds hyperbolic. Let me reorient for a moment. We live in a universe of interconnected
layers of intelligent relation. Our language does not present this to us and presents an entirely
different, bizarre, mostly impossible and dangerously narrow perspective. We keep hearing headlines,
which are absurd. Headlines like scientists discover corvids are extremely intelligent and can solve
problems. Well, solving problems is a tiny portion of the nature of intelligence. That's the pinky on
the hand of an entire being that our science has failed to even glimpse, let alone bring forth to our
imagination and awareness. This weird game of dissecting things into their anatomical components
and then determining the function of these components is a deadly game for intelligence,
but it produces technologies. Unfortunately, it doesn't produce cultures capable of
intelligently employing such technologies. So this game is the game that is most likely
to end life on earth if we cannot begin to play a much more interesting and noble game than this.
It's a vast undertaking to propose that we reeducate not merely the humans, but their societies.
Yet we must do this, even if we are only able to affect, in our lifetime, a very tiny cohort of
humans, even if we are only able to make a small impact on societies, though it is possible to
attack the problem at its roots in such a way that by inserting new roots that are rich and
diverse and contain in completeness and dimensionality and relationship, we could become a different
species. One of the bizarre features of our kind of animal is that we speciate cognitively
according to language, and we're in accord with language is probably a better way of putting it,
so that what you get is a second layer of evolutionary development or
deprivation. We can devolve, although that proposes that evolution is progress. Let's just say
our kind of animal can make advances that destroy our potential as an intelligent organism,
yet superficially appear, quote, advanced, unquote. We know more than we used to know,
therefore we're more intelligent now, but that
particular slice of the possibilities of intelligence is deceptive,
because some kinds of knowledge make us dumber. Gaining knowledge doesn't mean we become more
intelligent. Advances in technology certainly don't result in more intelligent societies or humans,
yet. So let's get back to the problem with things for a moment. When we think about identity,
what something is, I guess this is an ontological question, we generally are not trained to consider
the role of language, habit, purpose, and our minds, yet when we think about what a tree is,
or if we refer to a tree in language, we're doing something with our minds,
and if we refer to it vocally, we're committed, we are engaged in speech acts.
Now, in my talk this evening, you can see that it's possible to use speech and language in a way
that moves against the ordinary habits and inclinations and proclivities and outcomes
that we are used to being almost always the case.
So there's a vast frontier here for awareness and the recovery of the vast library of intelligences
that we are the inadvertent beneficiaries of. We didn't necessarily sign up to inherit
these things, but by being born human we did. And as I've often said in many of my videos,
most of the potentials and opportunities that we have as humans will be explicitly denied us
by the contexts and situations and cultures in which we find ourselves growing up and interacting.
But if when we refer to something,
a monkey, for example, if we are aware that that behavior
transforms the manifold of our awareness and attention
by causing the mind to collapse down a ladder of cuts, from the everything to something,
to an animal, to this animal, to this form, to this category of animal, monkey. Of course,
when I say monkey, there's not an actual monkey here. So we're also employing abstraction.
I'm speaking abstractly about a possible monkey or a linguistic monkey, which is nothing like
an actual monkey. It's just the token that we use to point at an actual monkey with no actual monkey
there. There was a hilarious analogy the other night in a talk on Vedanta that I was listening
to. Or actually, was I listening? Yes, I was with my son in which the Swami who was giving the talk
was talking about non-dualists versus dualists and the kind of arguments they engage in.
And he gave the analogy of a man who's riding an elephant. And sometimes these men who ride elephants,
they come together and they decide for some reason, probably they're already half insane,
let's have our elephants fight. Let's fight our elephants. But imagine that you come up against
a man who's wildly out of his mind and says, let's fight our elephants, but he doesn't have an elephant.
And this is the kind of thing that happens in abstract language. We think we're talking about
monkeys, we're actually talking about abstraction. Our minds are not engaged with monkeys, they're
engaged with tokens. And if we cannot tell the difference, we become confused and think
that the tokens represent actual beings, but they don't. There's no connection with the actual
being because there's no actual being there. This is like a situation where there are neither
men nor elephants, but they think that there are men and elephants because they can say man and elephant.
You can see the problem here. The incredible, seemingly advanced properties of language
and the capacity to refer to things, beings, relationships, actions, situations,
