Hello everybody, and welcome.
This is my second attempt to record on the topic of music.
The first one was plagued by mic sensitivity, and you'll probably hear a little noise from
the mic even on this one, but I'm using my older headset, which seems to be less sensitive.
So the last recording that I attempted to make was plagued with noise, but I also managed
to stir up the suspicion of various neighbors while walking around late at night trying
to record a podcast and ended up having a rather tense encounter with a carload of people,
and then shortly thereafter an encounter with the police.
I assure you that great fun was had by all, and hopefully to some degree these issues
have been put to rest for the moment, but it's useful to maintain situational awareness
wherever we may be, and so as to not arouse undue suspicion and other kinds of problems.
So now I am again walking late at night.
And I think I began the last recording with a bit of a bird walk on the topic of having
meaningful roles, yes, because it is Halloween in our western calendar, and this is a time
when everybody dresses up and gets to select a character or monster or something to play
at being, and you know, the problem I think we have is that much of our play styles and
abilities end up getting captured by our culture and commodified and iconized and photographed
and right, it's a big spectacle charade.
And this is unfortunate, but we do live circa 2022, and it is the far future of my now distant
childhood.
I always loved Halloween as a child, and it should be clear that many of the symbols of
Halloween are phenological symbols.
These are symbols of the transformation of the season, and particularly the beginning
of winter, which for many people is a time of great trial, crisis, and often death.
So the bats come out much more in this season.
Of course there are pumpkins, and all kinds of, you know, changes in the trees and the
foods that we will eat and share, but for most of human history, the winters were harsh.
Food stores tended to spoil or run out, and everyone struggled to get through and often
had to share food.
In small communal enclaves, this is a natural thing to do, everyone keeps each other alive,
but in our culture, though there are some avenues through which we may give and share
with others, mostly we tend to keep to ourselves.
But I loved dressing up for Halloween, and was very excited to have some kind of distinctive
costume, and loved the role playing aspect of it.
Later in my life, when I came back from the street after being a runaway, I was engaged
with people who were pretty deeply interested, mostly in getting intoxicated and causing
trouble.
And we used to get into plenty of trouble and smoked a lot of pot and did whatever we could,
but that wore thin fairly quickly for me, and I was very lucky to encounter a small
group of math geeks, some of whom I'd been to elementary school with, who were playing
Dungeons & Dragons, and this is circa early 80s, right, so these were pen and paper games
with dice, tabletop games, we played D&D, Arduin, Rune Quest, Call of Cthulhu, Traveler, we played
war games with miniatures, Starfleet Battles, box games like Kingmaker and Dune, and we were
extremely addicted to it.
I had never imagined there was something this amazing and fun to do together.
And it was all happening in our imaginations, right, the scenes, the rules that we played,
the characters we played, they weren't like video games at all, we actually were acting
out the characters, so we got to try on alternate identities.
And this was really one of the most important features of my life at that time.
I made new friends, we became very tightly bonded, we adventured together in imaginary
worlds, it was really, really fun.
We would often play for as long as we possibly could, right, like 10, 15, 20 hours.
And whenever we weren't working or otherwise occupied, you could pretty much find the pod
that we formed gaming together somewhere at one of our houses.
I think it's really important to understand that being human is an experiment.
And the situation is fundamentally experimental in the sense of inviting fantasy, imaginary
play, exploring different ways of being myself or being together with other people, all of
these kinds of things.
And Halloween at least has a bit of the role playing aspect in it.
And so I think that part of it can be fun.
And it's strange that we just do it one day a year.
We have one day where I guess we're supposed to get all that out of your system, a crude
authority figure might say.
But the seasons are changing, the insect life here, the praying mantises are approaching
their final life phase.
And many of the insects and which insects are common have changed dramatically.
There are some late season wasps, but I feel very trenchantly the shift in the season.
It's surprising to me that in none of my previous videos have I much least spoken of music.
And it's such a rich and important topic.
I want you to remember and think for a moment of some of the first few songs you heard that
really had a deep impact on you or that you identified with in a profound way.
And just take a moment and remember them.
When I was younger, we lived in the time of LP records.
So we would buy vinyl.
And when compact discs began to emerge, we were very skeptical about the technology for
lots of reasons.
Turns out that testing has determined that apparently LP records are capturing and reproducing
frequencies in a way that digital recordings can't.
Which isn't too surprising for us kids of the 60s, 70s and 80s.
You know, when we begin to speak of music, my early memories are so profound.
Music had an incredible effect on me.
I sang all the time as a child along with the radio.
Growing up listening to music, particularly in the 60s, 70s and 80s, even popular music
was fairly rich and poetically sophisticated.
Songs told stories like the night the lights went out in Georgia.
And record albums were really a bit like a doorway into another universe.
The incredible artistry and fascinating novel visual experience of just going to a record
store and paging through the albums.
You can see here that there's some aspect of role playing involved, right?
The bands are actually presenting a sort of meta identity to the public through their
music and the artwork that adorns the album covers and so on.
And so to buy an album was to begin to participate in other worlds.
Being worlds of imagination, adventure, confusion, mystery.
And the Beatles were extremely influential.
But the music that we listened to on the radio when I was young, even the quote, pop music
unquote, was theatrical and poetically rich.
I quail to think at most of what goes on these days because those traditions have been transformed
by culture.
And so much of our quote popular music, it's difficult to really even imagine that it's
music.
It seems to be much more mechanized and follow very clumsy, simple tropes.
There's plenty of exceptions.
It's not the only thing that's going on.
And in my youth, the record albums were really like doorways to other universes.
And while we were listening to the incredible music and creativity and poetic beauty of
the songs we were transported, now certainly all music works on us in somewhat this way.
But popular music has degraded into something that only slightly resembles music and most
of its poetics have been dragged down to the place where they can reach the vast, swarming,
half educated masses.
And that's unfortunate.
All of the arts of creativity, music and acting and dance, drawing and painting, writing,
especially poetry or song, all of these things are places where we begin to depart from the
tedious and rather empty everyday world into not merely a different world, but a different
experience of ourselves.
And many of us felt feelings of heroism or a call to establish our destinies and so on
from songs.
They were the actual church outside the regular religion.
Their effect on culture was rich, deep and astonishingly transformative in both senses
of the word, right?
They changed our culture, they expressed our culture, and they inspired us deeply.
The word music is related to something most of us moderns would dismiss as old superstition
or religion or something like this.
In our understanding of Greek thought and records, we find that Zeus mates with nemosity,
effectively memory, and begets the muses.
And there are different versions of how many there are, what they oversee, there's epic
poetry, lyric poetry, history, linguistics, rhetoric and sophistry in a way.
And then different muses, perhaps one or two muses for different modes of music.
And rather than having been sloppy thinkers, the Greeks were, by all appearances, deeply
philosophically minded and so had a very rich banquet of ways of knowing that allowed
them to see into features of our humanity or experience or the nature of the sky that
have long been lost for most of us.
But the idea that the muses are beings is not unfamiliar to creative people the world
around.
Our music, when we make it, comes into us from somewhere.
And anyone who composes, even if it's poetry or writing, knows that there's an unusual
situation as regards where and how our creativity originates, where does the dancer's dance
come from, where does the singer's song originate.
And many of the songs in the 60s and 70s had this bizarre, intense, timeless sort of feeling
as if we're not merely stepping out of the ordinary world, we're stepping into an incredibly
unexpected relationship with time.
This should not be surprising, as most of music is in a way a kind of playing around
as in orbiting synchronizations and transformations over time.
So the music actually temporalizes our experience in a way that's not common to our everyday
activities and contexts.
There were a few songs that stood out to me, and I myself began to become a musician, though
I had sung throughout my young life, I had ache to play the guitar and I began to do so
around the age of 15, I think.
I was at that time a runaway, and managed to find my way into a bizarre experiment of
a hippie school in Great in California called Nunsuch, and the eight or nine girls around
my age, I was the only boy over eight there, it was an all ages school, probably six or
seven of the ten girls all played guitar at various levels of skill and sang, and new
folk songs, and so essentially they were my real teachers, they helped me to begin to
acquire the ability to manipulate that very difficult instrument.
And I was ecstatic about it, the feelings that I experienced when making music were
feelings of liberation and wonder, and curiosity and mystery.
I've always adored music, but I think it's really important to understand that it's
one of the endogenous naturally occurring features in ourselves that leads us out of
a very squished up trap that our collective representations, which are empty inside, are
inclined to deliver to us as our experience of day to day life.
Surely the singer is transported when singing, transported where?
With that kind of transport, almost made mysterious and mythical, right?
When someone begins intoning a song with great passion and skill, the audience is lifted
up into something resembling a superposition of their ordinary feelings and sense of the
world.
When the music begins, if it's true and good, everything changes.
So it is one of the great doors in our lives to a richness far beyond what we ordinarily
experience, many of us sometimes.
So obviously the word music is related to the word muse in ancient Greek.
Now the Greeks had this idea that we have lost but is very important, and it was more
than an idea to them.
It was their experience, meaning prior to reflecting on it, it was their experience.
And the idea was the idea of a hypostasis, right, that all of the features of our experience
here on earth and all of the beings and objects with which we're in relation, these are not
representations of the dead kind that we moderns have.
They were representations in a different way.
They were lesser configurations, right, lesser figures of principles and beings at the order
above ours.
The obvious place for that order is the sky.
So the muses were known as the origin of the urge to make poetry or write or learn history,
perhaps mathematics.
And there were different muses for different things at different times.
But musicians in general will acknowledge at least those who compose music or sing, right,
or bark, that something comes to us.
We reach toward mystery with our souls and our hearts, and there's a response from the
great miasma of time space and life.
And so the songs come to us from a place we would do well to think of as at least magical.
And the well-made songs and the beautiful singers are certainly enchanting us, as do
our actors and dancers and painters and writers and so on.
You can see there's cross-pollination between all of these arts.
I remember reading, for example, some of Nabokov's works after hearing Sting mention them in a
police song.
And I'm fairly sure that the song Life During War Time by the Talking Heads is about Lucius
Shepard's book of the same title, an astonishing book that I deeply recommend.
He's passed away now, but he was a science fiction author.
Of course, there should be a muse of something like prophecy or of divination or something
like this.
And many of the songs seemed both incredibly powerful in their own right, but also as speaking
about features of life, experience, and existence in such a rich way that they became, these
features themselves became enchanted.
And many of us, when we were young, we had songs that to us were deeply personal, almost
