as if they'd been written about me.
And these became anthems for us in a way.
Some of the anthems, though I had quite a few, that I deeply recall with pleasure and
sadness in a way is Don McLean's American Pie.
And in conversation with my son the other night, we began to wonder aloud whether or
not, like what was the actual situation with the songs that we found filled with this kind
of personal, prophetic meaning, and we wondered, did my life follow the yarks and the chorals
of the song, or was I scripted by the song to live it out, or was it a combination of
both, or was something else going on, and so on.
And when I was young, we had libraries and bookstores.
There was nothing like the internet.
To find content, you had to either seek it out in an almost wishful thinking kind of
way, like does something like this thing I want exist?
Or you could try to find places where you could be exposed to the vast possibilities
of literature and music.
But mostly we figured out what there was from listening to the radio, and in Central California
the radio was fairly narrow bandwidth of musical styles.
But again, in the 70s, most of the stuff on the radio was amazing.
There was regular pop music, but it wasn't grim almost never, and it didn't have the
drumbeat gunshot rhythms familiar to so much of what I vaguely encountered as modern pop
music.
And it was a really different world.
There were songs like The Wheel in the Sky, many Beatles tunes, Queen, Bohemian Rhapsody,
Elton John was very popular, The Bee Gees, Led Zeppelin, The Who.
And many of these bands, they wove a sort of magical identity through their albums, album
to album.
And so you could see that they're authorized to play roles, and we authorized them in our
hearts to express the secret unspoken things that without the light of this music we would
never find within us.
So profound.
Now many musicians will agree that when making something truly beautiful, even if one is
alone or in a small group, it is as if an audience arises beyond the players.
And I think this sense is the sense of the near proximity of the muses.
Whenever we begin to create a radical transformation of who we are occurs, and we have the chance
to reach for visions of who we might become, or what is possible, and the good, and the
true, and the beautiful, and the dark, and the tragic, and the mythic.
And so this is such fertile ground for our self development.
Now each person has unique affinities and disaffinities.
Not everyone, we might say, even though we'd be confused, is born to sing.
But we should remember that the earliest sounds that we emitted as babies were musical sounds.
And the tonality of language probably predates the arising of anything resembling formal
language in our species.
In simpler terms, we probably began by singing and making rhythmic sounds together with the
capacity to articulate words coming much later.
And so we all began as musical, and even in today's world where, at least in the United
States, vast populations have sort of collapsed the tonality of their speech into a fairly
monotone situation, more so for men by far.
Men are trained to monotonize, generally.
We're not supposed to have music in our voices, according to the book of Sposta by Johnny and
Guido Sposta, Macmillan in New York, 1925.
So if you listen carefully, especially to certain forms of communication's behavior
by humans, particularly when people are madly in love with each other, or if they are angry
with each other, or there's some emotional content, you will hear much of the communication
is transferred from words to tone, and tone becomes the communicative feature of utterances
much more than the words in many of these situations.
And of course, when we cry, we're essentially making music very high-pitched sounds.
And those high-pitched sounds carry.
They carry really well.
One might imagine they can be heard by beings who are not merely human and responded to.
Crying is in a way a sort of naive, by this I mean innocent, not duplicitous form of praying.
Our soul becomes impassioned or agonic, and we simply cry.
So you can see that there's music everywhere, and the people who have and develop, we can
each develop our skill with vocal tonality, even if much of our habits were acquired in
childhood, and maybe be relatively, you know, at this point, relatively entrenched.
Still, we can acquire a musical voice, and a musical voice is calming and beautiful and
powerful.
It's very persuasive when people have sophisticated vocal music.
Compared to those who don't, we would almost always rather listen to the others because
their speech carries more information than the words.
And thus has the capacity to really reach our interiority, and we begin to participate
in whatever is being communicated, much more directly, much less abstractly.
When composing music, and I encourage everyone to try it, there's no reason for you not
to be composing music if you have any desire at all, there is a magic that happens immediately.
And sometimes in states of high creativity, I remember a young guitarist, a neoclassical
metal guitarist, who was extremely talented.
He came to me one day when I worked at the guitar shop in Santa Rosa.
He described it to me a long experience of entering a trance in his room while practicing
these incredibly difficult, complex, scalar patterns on the fretboard.
And he described the room sort of fading away in the picture of Paganini, a violinist who
was deeply influential on the beginning of neoclassical metal in America.
Apparently he felt that Paganini had come into his room and had a conversation with
him and was teaching him.
And I know he brought it to me because he knew something of who I was.
And that I was at least, you know, modestly educated about the forms and the scale patterns
and so on that he used.
And I learned from him.
He taught me incredible things about pyrotechnics on the fretboard, so to speak.
But I have also very often had the strong feeling that a being or beings are present
with me when I'm composing, watching in a positive way, nurturing, encouraging, inspiring,
helping me to form the beauty that I'm seeking, the mystery that I'm seeking.
For the advent of writing, the oral traditions of the transmission of philosophy, mathematics,
geometry, religion, and so on was very deeply entrenched.
It was not uncommon for someone in a particular tradition to sing perhaps for days on end,
reciting an entire cycle of songs.
And it's obvious that music aids memory.
The richness of our environment when I was young, having to quest for books, find out
if they existed, discover them, ordering them, chasing them down, getting the money.
It created a deep intimacy and it was the same with the LPs.
There was a personal relationship with these recordings that arose before one encountered
them.
And the cross-pollination of arts is profoundly nourishing for not just memory, which we think
of in one way, the ability to remember something, but memory is a profoundly sophisticated jungle,
a thriving jungle of processes and synchronizations and timing and all of these things.
And so exposure to music not only transforms what we can be as human beings, but it changes
literally the structure of our nervous systems, endowing them with features they would not
otherwise acquire.
Think of the dancer's nervous system, the singer's nervous system.
Their whole body has become involved in this exquisite, exotic, to our everyday life activity.
And it's not accidental that we may revere them as heroes or heroines.
They give us the capacity to envision ways of being that we may not yet have been capable
of imagining about them.
Many religious texts actually have a song version.
And when you hear someone, for example, reciting Vedantic sutras or the Upanishads or perhaps
the Bhagavad Gita, you will notice that almost invariably they are singing.
There's a standard sort of tonal system that overlays the language.
And this doesn't merely make the content more memorable.
It links it in memory in ways that without the music, it will never be linked.
So you can see here again the wisdom of the Greeks.
Memory is the mother of the muses, but the muses transform memory and their capacity
to synergize together creates incredible possibilities for human experience and imagination, for memory
and intelligence, for coordination, synchronization.
Think of the military marches that soldiers are trained to lock step to and so on.
Incredible synchronization across the group.
How music again creates a new form of time in which we are capable of things that in
the ordinary form of time largely don't happen much.
And if we're chasing them a bit.
When I was young, a goodly portion of the music we were exposed to involved the beginnings,
probably around the late fifties or something, of the availability of psychedelic drugs to
young people.
And so there were songs of madness and incredible strangeness, but these two became magical
and transported us without drugs into an interior experience of another way of being.
And so we identified, many of us, very deeply with our record collections and our book collections.
And I still do to some degree, but not in the way that when I was young I did.
That was a way of enchantment.
This is more a way of nostalgia, something like this, though I still compose music on
occasion and I absolutely love to play and sing.
It was very difficult to acquire the ability to synchronize my singing with anything more
than a very basic strum on the guitar.
I struggled with that for years and still have a little trouble here and there.
But when writing my own songs, that issue mostly resolved itself.
And composition has been one of the greatest joys of my life, even though I'm a relatively
untrained musician.
So think back again to those songs from your early years that deeply affected you and influenced
you, the songs some of which may have become anthems for you.
And wonder with me together about the incredible untapped potential of music in our culture
and both transform our culture, inform our culture, and enchant us with inspirations that
we might otherwise never dream of.
Thank you for joining me.
I look forward to learning together again very soon.
Bye-bye for now.
