I'm going for a walk in the night in a place I grew up and it's filled
with powerful memories. In this neighborhood, depending on which zone
you pick, I've been in 20 to 80% of the houses when I was young with other
children, teenagers, and adults. We lived here in this neighborhood. We lived here.
And those memories are so rich. And even though there were dark times in them,
they're very bright. They have an aura of beauty. Somehow even the dark things have
this aura of beauty. And as I walk these streets and see the houses where I lived
or my friends lived or my girlfriend lived. And I hear the two competing sounds most clearly.
One is the freeway to my left, which is an interstate freeway. And the other is the frog
chorus from the Delta waters on my right. And for the moment, these two things are
reversed because the sound of the freeway goes better with my right side is more like my right
side and how I think about things. And the frog chorus on my left, excuse me, on my right,
is natural to my left. Am I dreaming mind? Occasionally, I get to hear the beautiful
sound of the Opspene in Blackfoot. Beautiful language. My God, how beautiful it is compared
to ours, which seems to me so angular. And there's what seems to me to come from the sounds of
nature. I don't want to say itself. I think of it as herself. But just nature. You don't have to
gender it. We're on gender. It's all the genders. Ah, yeah, I hear a distant Opspene, which is
the white cheek geese of the northern places that have come now to dwell here with us in our cities.
They've become synanthropes. They become animals that can prosper in and around human colonies.
The moon is a comfort. I see Orion, but I have my own constellation, which if you think you can see
it, please tell me, is a big two-headed bird that Orion is the tail of and it has long wings to
either side and then two distinct heads. See if you can see it some night when the stars are
clear in this time of year. Yeah, I hear some Opspene in the distance. You know, time is such a strange
thing. Now for the moment, there's an animal with me and I wonder if she would come to me. So I'm kneeling
on the cold cement and 18 feet in front of me is a cat. And we are just observing each other.
The cat has decided that I'm not particularly a good idea. But since the cat didn't startle immediately,
I thought there might be a chance for us to have a moment of relation. So I know I got down low
around the cat's level. I can't go quite that low. But if I want to understand something,
there's lots of different good ways to proceed in such a fascinating quest. And one of the things I
want to do is I want to make it bigger than me. I want it, I want to stand under it and look up to it
as I do right now to the moon. And of course, this is very easy with the moon or the sun or the stars
or constellations. But it's not always so easy in ourselves. And I could speak now, and I may even,
with great articulation about methods and perspectives and metaphors and similes and language
and holophores and so many things I've come to learn in my lifetime. But understanding
is really what I'm after. It's what I trust most. Seeing, of course, that's a metaphor.
Because I don't mean to see with my eyes. I mean to see with the aspects of my being
that make meaning not merely of experience, because that's rather passive, but of action,
doing, being, the verb of things, that verbal interiority that isn't reference. It's embodied.
We can trust it. It's ancient beyond our ideas of time. It comes from before we were born.
It leaks into our lives, gushes when we are children. But as we get older and become more
structured and now I've turned a corner and the frogs and the geese are on the left and the free
way is on the right. Polarities, you see. So as we quote unquote get older, what we should really,
what I would rather say is that as we develop in our peculiar contexts and specializations and
struggles and confusion and adoration and heartbreak and vocation, here are all these
shun sounds. It's not an accident, these shun sounds. So many of them are relationships,
our processes of maturation, all these things and many more I cannot name.
We each develop uniquely. It's as if each seed of our being can become a tree and some of those
trees can become jungles, depending on which we most develop. I have to say that frog chorus is
mighty comforting. I just naturally go toward the chorus of frogs, or usually even the calls of
animals in any case. So we each develop uniquely along many branches of potential development.
But for most of us, our potential development will be very narrow. In other words, there will be a
commonly cultural trees that we will succumb to the gravity of and we will develop these things
primarily. In a way, there's great sensibleness there because we're in the context we're actually
in. Whether you live in Paris or Morocco or Czechoslovakia or a factory city somewhere in Asia,
whether you live in India or Madagascar or Australia, we are each in a specific array of
local contextual gravity wells, things that draw us toward them, things we are rewarded for developing
and things we are discouraged from developing, and we develop all kinds of things anyway.
But the gravity of where we are is very deep and not just where we are in space,
as we might ordinarily think, but where we are in time and not just the time of the year
or the time, meaning like the epoch, the personal communal time of a specific place
in a specific moment, like this one right now.
We have deep time senses and many of the senses that we think are supernatural or psychic or
siddhis, which are the fruits of deep meditative development or martial arts skills,
many kinds of skills, the skills of music, the skill of writing, even the skill of articulating
not merely my thoughts because that's not what's happening, I'm playing a song with my mind
for us together for the chorus, like the frog chorus, and I have a direction in mind,
but I'm wandering all around in the beginning because I want to start with a broad scope of
possibilities and seeds from which trees may grow or rivers may flow or forests may rise or mountains
may stand.
Now the freeway is behind me and the frog chorus is in front of me.
There's a whole delta out there, it's gigantic, I've been on it, it's filled with brackish water
and tuli islands and gigantic catfish the size of crocodiles and carp and bass
and storks and white-cheek geese and crayfish and frogs, bats and owls, hawks and kestrels,
raccoons and opossums, skunks, snakes,
sunfish, sunfish.
I know because I've been all through those waters many times and swam in them and fished in them,
lived near them.
They are the source of life wildly unvalued that this local place emerges from.
So I like to get underneath things, it didn't work with the cat this time, but that's okay.
I once had a fascinating conversation with an infant who couldn't speak
because when he made certain noises I just got down on the floor so that my face and his face
were at the same level and then he communicated something to me so mysterious, so impossible,
so profound that for me to make ordinary language about it would be insulting.
And there are many such things, a kiss, a moment of deep insight or awareness or love
or understanding. These things are like this. There's my simile.
The closer I get to the frogs now on my right, the more comfortable I feel because I trust the signal.
It's older than language, it's older than machines, it's rich with dimensionality,
we don't even have concepts for, let alone words for. If I were listening on earth
and I wanted to find the signal that the intelligences of many other worlds were sending to this world,
I would listen to the whale, I would listen to the frog and the dove and the mouse,
I would listen to the snake, I would listen to the scorpion or the spider or the bat,
I would listen to the eagle, I would listen to the magpie, to the blue jay,
I would listen to the praying mantis, I would listen to the turtle,
all of these beings I would listen to because they are made of a form of intelligence
we moderns are too timid to imagine and I don't understand it
yet though I certainly lift it far above me, I don't understand it.
I kneel before it in rapt fascination, in reverence, in adoration, in wonder.
And I feel like a blind man singing the praises of light.
I cannot see their light most of the time though there are occasional glimpses
and it's like they're trying to get through to someone who's very hard-headed,
right? It's like the animals are trying in the plants and the trees and the insects and all of
the beings, the lakes and the living places, they are speaking to us all the time, in fact
they never stop doing so and it's not urgent for them, it is their natural way of being,
they speak to us and we can speak with them and listen to them, we can learn, we can remember
how to do this, this is the nature of the kind of animal human beings are.
If we are merely humble
and forget what culture has told us, just set it aside, it'll be there when we come back
and wonder about the nature of worlds in time space, worlds teeming with billions of forms
of intelligent life that the humans, because these beings don't speak language, think don't speak.
Speak.
The humans think the grass is not speaking,
earth is not speaking, the mountain is not speaking, the sun is not speaking,
you know the rest of the list
and it's true they're not speaking.
They influence senses in us that have been overridden
by the bright lights and the machines and the ideas and the language and the concepts
and the short-term goals and the product and the consuming of the product and the
the direct mental manipulation that social media and news and television has long comprised
but has now become peculiarly virulent.
I hear, here's some Opspeany.
So we're all in a bit of a trap.
The most stimulating aspects of our common sensory and relational experience are empty.
They're missing most of the actual content and dimensionality
that they've become representations of. We could call this lossy compression and it's
happened to human cognition over epochs of our development but we now live in the apotheosis
of this issue. We have continually lossy, lossily compressed the primordial elements
of our inner compasses and our relationships with the world into transactions.
Largely utilitarian or profitable.
And so we don't really have relationships so much anymore and when I say we I mean
all of us to different degrees but I certainly mean the vast cohort of the common people who
are trapped in such impoverished layers of their capacities for awareness and thought
and understanding and action and transformation and development that it might as well be as
if they're in a prison and we each have features of our lives that are like this nearly all of us.
There are some exceptions it seems.
So here we are together in 2022 during a terrifying pandemic but the pandemic itself
is the surface crust on a much deeper message and it's an old message.
There used to be a commercial that started with it with a trope of it anyway.
You don't mess with mother nature.
The humans in general have both forgotten and neglected and consciously decided to
see the world as the opportunity to convert it into objects. In a human body this the best
analogy is cancer. We're making something like cancer in the world and in our minds
and these are highly polarizing kinds of cells that ignore all signals from the cohort from
which they arose and to which they belong and they just begin gathering up resources all the
resources they can to keep propagating themselves and this is what we call cancer.
We don't understand the depth of the problem. It's not a solvable problem. It's an important
problem. There have to be limits on the capacity of a single species and ours has broken the limits
and we've done it through technique and so now we're killing the world and each other and ourselves.
That's the grim story. What's the bright story?
So earlier I was remarking on the experience of an imaginary human being
who's lived all their lives next to a beautiful lake
and in our imaginary tale
the protagonist whatever their gender may be or become
our hero awakens suddenly unexpectedly one morning in a desert.
So the lake has always been shining right and they swam in the lake they played in the lake
they learned about the creatures in the lake they they dreamed of the lake they dreamed with the lake
they lived in the water and now suddenly the most obvious blatant thing that is always there
is missing or in our common human lives this could take the form of many sudden transformations
someone getting terribly ill loss of a loved one a tariff a sudden unexpected catastrophe
of some some you know sort and there is great darkness suddenly where previously there had
at least been enough light to get along with to get by with if not lots of light if not common light
for many of us light and creativity are fundamentally
in relation they are partly synonyms they mean the same thing
and for many of us a similar thing is joy right joy and creativity and
sorry
joy and creativity are fundamental to our the urgencies in the deep aspects of our heart
um
and uh so many human beings get stuck in a layer of existence where it's mostly just work pay the
bills try to recover from the damage work pay the bills watch the news post on facebook try to
recover from the damage etc and what i want to talk about is the person who wakes up in the desert
now one one kind of person or perhaps one phase of such a person is great despair
how could it possibly be that the lake is gone and not only that it's way too hot
everything is shining so brightly that it's hurting my mind and there are no features to the
landscape other than dunes of sand
and this is a troubling moment a dark moment
when the light disappears what do we do
do in english we might ask how do we cope but the problem with how do we cope
the fundamental problem is that one thinks of this and we are trained to think of this
as though i must cope by myself alone
now if we have rich cohorts in which we are loved and whom we respect and with whom we participate
then the idea of we is realized but otherwise it's the royal we it's the single one
attempting to cope by itself
or largely by itself themselves so where did the water go
in the little analogy where did it go because i'm talking about waters inside us
one day you know we may be struggling we may be having a rough life next to the lake
but one day we will wake up and the lake is gone
then what shall we do together particularly together then what shall we do
and naturally we run through a continuum of emotions and reactions oh this is terrible
how can this have happened wait this is impossible
i've never been without the light i remember a time in my dreaming where i could only dream in
darkness and i had this feeling so there was no there were no shapes in my dreams and no colors
it was all black
that was rough where we'll you know and i've always wondered what is the source of light in dreaming
so we will run through a gamut of emotions and reactions most of us
but some of us and you could be one of them and we could be two of them
and there could be five of us or ten or a thousand or a million
we could understand that the water hasn't disappeared the context has changed
and now where we saw it light before we will find darkness
and i can imagine because i am like this if every day i went to a well to get my water
and one day i go and the entire well is missing in fact the whole landscape has changed
i will be deeply troubled and think things like there is no more water
