I've been stung inside my ear, between my fingers, on my eyelids, inside my nose, and when I was very small, well actually I wasn't that small.
I don't know, when I was six or seven, I had an encounter with the yellow jacket that nearly killed me, not because I was allergic to them.
That was some really serious pain and the event went on for a long time.
The repercussions of that encounter lasted for months and perhaps nearly killed me.
But what I said to her was, you know, I know this is a frightening and painful thing, but an experience like this, there's something deeply profound about it because there's a transfer of essential,
hmm, well there's a transfer of substance, right, the venom of the sting, and we get that substance in our body and again, you know, superficially no one wants this.
But that transfer connects us to the WASP people and this is no small thing.
It's very difficult for me to explain it in common modern language, but there is a mystical union that happens if we are bitten or stung or scratched by an animal or a plant or if we get an infection, all of these things.
These are events where our body is transformed by receiving something truly ancient from the world and it doesn't always feel good.
In fact, it can be agonic, it can be agony, it certainly was for me and most of the time, when I was stung or bitten or cut or scratched, I didn't understand about the transfer of lineage energy,
right, of lineage medicine between the beings. There's something quite profound there, something worth paying attention to.
So I mentioned this to her and she said, well, you know, it wasn't really that bad, it's just that I know that some WASPs are very poisonous and so I was freaking out and I thought that maybe I was going to die.
And I said, you know, that's a common experience during initiation or ceremony. The death fear comes and this is the great barrier to awakening.
And this I know firsthand in my own way, for I have faced it and in my own way failed. Well, perhaps I partly succeeded and partly failed, but the waking mind associates liberation with death.
It just seems like death. And this isn't always the case, right? Each person's path is unique and their experience is unique. But it's very common, for example, when people are in a sweat lodge that it becomes very clear to them that they are mortal right now and that they may not live through this.
And very brave men and women can be reduced to panic, stricken terror in a ceremonial situation such as that which occurs during a sweat lodge or a Sundance and other kinds of ceremonies.
My own experience is rather unique and I don't intend to talk about it at length today. However, I had a long experience of constant insight that was very shocking.
And each day I felt that I could barely survive it. And some days it tried to knock me out and I would just cling to my consciousness for dear life because I was absolutely terrified that if I gave in to this strange pressure,
it was dragging me inexorably toward unconsciousness that I might die. And I regret that. And I've had other not dissimilar experiences where the sudden onset of an extreme transformation of awareness caused terror.
And it's not our essential nature, I think, that feels this terror. It's the structured prison that we identify with as our minds.
There's something older and deeper, more trustworthy and true underneath all this structured nonsense in the same way that underneath the buildings and paved streets and sidewalks of the city, there's moist earth.
Even if it's been deprived of the living surface that would otherwise enrich and transform it.
And wouldn't it be wonderful if we together could remember how to face the many layered fictions of our common waking consciousness?
To demolish them and see what the nature of seeing is actually about.
And of course in this language I mean inner seeing, knowing, awareness, enlightenment.
So when you hear people talking about enlightenment, they're generally talking about cutting off the mind road, the experience of cutting through the mind, the experience of undifferentiated awareness,
unique to each person nonetheless, that is buried beneath the layered strata of language and ideas and models and concepts and measurements and all of these things.
Now of course in our common lives, we may have some experience of awakening or something resembling it or even counterfeits of it.
Those of us who've experienced orgasms for example are aware at least that we have this propensity, we have this strange capacity of ecstasy,
sudden uncontrollable ecstasy that overwhelms everything and for a moment we're gone from ourselves.
I think in the French language or at least in French thought, orgasm is sometimes referred to as the little death.
What is dying?
Well, one of the things that certainly disappears during an experience that extreme is thought.
The ecstasy overwhelms the thinking mind and enlightenment is usually associated with ecstasy which means to leave stasis, to exit static ideas and identities and things.
And so because we all have within us a memory in a way or perhaps a living forest, a living essence that was there before the cities of thought and language and identity and ideas,
we ache to know the original water from whence we were differentiated and we're thirsty for this water all the time
and trapped in the structured mess of the waking mind, we can be sold things that vaguely resemble it.
Intoxications, drugs, alcohol, cigarettes, pot, psychedelic drugs
and some of these things in certain circumstances with some people in some situations could actually be medicinal in that under their influence we may glimpse,
we may become suddenly aware that there's another universe and we're always with and in it, but ordinarily it's inaccessible to us.
And that hint can be very powerful, but even though almost everyone will become aware of this to some degree under the influence of say a psychedelic drug like mushrooms
or LSD, very rarely is it true it's a rare thing for us to be equipped to make intelligent use of it or that's too utilitarian to follow the hint rather than the drug.
So what more often happens is that people become inclined to associate the drug with ecstasy, of course ecstasy, we actually have a drug called ecstasy, MDMA.
And that association is quite dangerous if our actual hope is to awaken and this is why there are very few enlightenment traditions
that would promote or authorize the use of such drugs and I'm aware of many stories about this, there was a story of a man who went to a Tibetan monastery
and had taken LSD in the night and one of the monks there appeared in his awareness over and over again and he could sort of half participate in that monk's awareness.
And later the next day the monk came to him and said, what are you doing?
And he said, well, what do you mean? I saw you last night. He said, I know you saw me. What are you doing?
And he said, well, you know, I was using LSD because it could help me see and the monk said, no, no, no, no, you're completely confused.
You've got this all backwards. Don't do that again and don't do that here.
Now this is a specific circumstance and there are many other kinds of circumstances.
But the monk's awareness was so open and refined and clear that what the Western guy was doing was like toying around with something sacred in a dangerous way.
You know, a man who I don't yet know on Facebook, an indigenous man was telling some stories and he told stories of a man with a great power of knowledge, great awareness, deep awareness.
And people came to him and they would bring him gifts because when there's an exchange, there's a transfer from both sides, right?
The wasp that stings me, some of my being and body goes with that wasp and the venom stays with me, perhaps.
But it's also in the wasp and so in a way now we are going to always be together.
So often there are offerings before someone asks for something, before someone asks for something powerful.
In any case, they'd bring this old man some gifts and they wanted to ask him some questions and they asked him, and this isn't my story.
And I don't understand that it's just one I've heard and it's useful.
But they asked him, because he knew something about lightning, where would lightning strike next?
And he said, you know, it's not a very good question.
You're being nosy. You're trying to test my powers and that's not the right kind of relationship to have with knowledge or with power.
It's not there to be tested. So maybe you should ask something that you yourself can learn from or that is important.
Now this is my paraphrasing of the story and the story goes on and again, it's not my story.
Although I think the man who shared it was sharing these stories with the idea that they would be preserved and shared.
And see this is the problem right here.
The waking mind is very interested in grasping, manipulating.
It wants commodities, it likes tests and courtrooms and analyses and measurements.
It wants proof.
But proof, to seek proof of something, is quite often a purpose estranged from understanding awareness and intelligence.
And this very old man who I think was Anish Nabi was aware of this problem and immediately saw through the mess that was about to be made.
And testing or proving a power is a dangerous thing because something that's authentically sacred has to be protected.
It has to be distinguished from the structured layers of nonsense and rationality and logic and so on that actually kill it off.
Those imperatives are what evict our deepest essential awareness.
Most often.
Again, none of these things I am saying are absolute. There are exceptions. Language is tricky this way.
So you know, we think we have minds. What are minds? What are these things? Are they things?
How did we come to have a mind? The mind that we experience while awake, the mind that is drawn to the many counterfeited treasures of modern thought, behavior, activity and experience.
What is a mind? For most of us, our experience of this will be very limited.
We will be like people who live in a prison that's dressed up as fantasy land, Disneyland, and we will think that we know what we know and believe what we believe and can name what we name.
And that we've learned how to do this and this is how it is to be human.
Well, if having just the tiny joint at the end of your pinky is what it means to have hands, that's what most of us will come to experience as having a mind.
Whatever a mind might be, it is profoundly mysterious, but what I wanted to touch on in this talk today was the precedence of dreaming and memory.
Surely, if you have no memory, you will have nothing like a mind, as we understand it, and you won't be able to structure the flows of awareness into static forms.
Now, if we were able to suddenly stop doing that, to cut off the mind road, to see through the mind into our original nature, which is no nature, then we would all understand that this fantasy game, which is very addictive and profoundly compelling once we become involved in it, is a trap.
And it's a trap that leads to endless kinds of ignorance that masquerade as intelligence.
Now, someone who is seen through the mind can use the capacity for structuring consciousness with great freedom.
And this is prodigy. And many of the people we revere as prodigies found their own way either to see through some aspect that would otherwise trap them and gain specific kinds of liberty, or they saw through the whole thing and gained what we might call true liberation.
Now, the thing I want to make clear is, when we were little, we were dreaming while we were awake. And we called this play. And, well, we didn't, the adults did. For us, it was just naturally how we were.
So we were dreaming while we were awake. And I've had this experience, and it's really something as an adult. It's provocative beyond my capacity to convey here.
But what happened is, in the daytime, we would be imprinted by the minds of the adults around us and our peers, and the culture, and the television, and the computer, and so on.
And when we were very small at night, the dreaming was so powerful, it would wash all that away every night. But we learned how to capture part of that incredibly powerful, intelligent flow, and transform it into static structures that could be preserved across the gaps of sleep and dreaming,
so that eventually we sort of had a small island in this sea. And at first, that was an amazing accomplishment that I think we were deeply proud of.
Yet most of us intuited that there was danger there as well, because as children, we can sense in the adults the presence of something tragic and malformed.
So as time went on, that little island became a city, and eventually much of dreaming and imagination and play was evicted from our waking consciousness.
And we still have the faculties within us. We still want to play and have adventures and learn and grow. And that's beautiful. I'm all for that.
Unfortunately, though, and again, there are exceptions all over the place. Artists and scientists and doctors and medicine people, all kinds of wonderful exceptions. Sorry about the wind.
Well, sorry about the noise, actually.
While there are many exceptions, nearly everyone has been mostly evicted from the dreaming world that is natural to our being as humans.
And I think thousands of years ago there was still something of this going on, but it was much more gentle, not as pervasive, and it had reverence for the aspects of awareness associated with our deepest natures and dreaming.
I don't have a better word than dreaming, but we begin able to deeply participate in awareness and life.
And then we acquire the capacity instead to tokenize it, identify things, name them, to reference them, to re-ference them.
And this is abstract. This is non-participatory. This is cognitive. This is linguistic. This is theoretical. This is categorical.
These are the structured aspects. The structured faculties that emerge from collapsing the living flows of dreaming into structures that can be preserved and transmitted over time.
Now, these topics are very deep, and it was my goal today to broach them in a way to spark some interest in them.
And I still have much to learn and understand about these matters, but I am fascinated by the story of what happened to the dreaming way as we became entlanguaged and enculturated.
Many people will say things like, oh, well, your imagination, you had when you were a child, you'll grow out of that. That's not true. That's not right.
Something else happens. It gets captured by processes, habits, and imperatives that have nothing to do with our true nature as beings, organisms, humans, or at least very little to do with that.
And instead transform us into a kind of a living dead thing in the sense that nearly all of the faculties that would otherwise be naturally available to us, including things we consider impossible,
things we've called psychism or telepathy or prophecy or medicinal empathy, co-feeling, to know another being from inside that being rather than from within a structured mess of concepts and language and identities.
To travel anywhere without moving, to move our awareness in time, to transfer our awareness to other beings and bide with them, go with them, beings like lakes and rivers and mountains and stars and worlds.
All of these faculties belong to humans, but they cannot survive the decimation that occurs when the dreaming flow is captured, structured, and preserved as tokens and references.
Or rather, they survive, but like an exile, they are found when we dream.
And there are other ways of having awareness while we're awake. There are various kinds of trance, which is a way that we can use to penetrate the structured strata of our otherwise relatively deadened consciousness awareness.
There are many ways.
For those of us who awaken the passionate desire to see through the mind, we have a beautiful and compelling quest to pursue.
And we can help each other in very profound ways, though the quest can also be pursued alone.
I think it's beautiful when we help each other to authentically see through those stratifications within for each other and the history and future of all beings.
That seems to me a truly noble purpose.
And I am passionately hungry.
I am passionately fascinated by all of these possibilities and what we might achieve together in remembering the before.
The before of cities, the before of noise, the before of vastly layered fictions, compelling and misdirecting us constantly.
Wouldn't it be wonderful to just set all that down for a moment? It'll still be there when we return.
Again, however, if we proceed in this quest, we will probably come face to face with the terrifying fear of death.
Because the waking mind is like a distinct being and has its own imperatives and purposes.
And they're very momentous. They have a lot of momentum.
They're also extremely expensive to run all that crap on top of our awareness, requires staggering amounts of what we might refer to as energy.
Much the way, in the same way that our cities and computers and all of these things, they require vast libraries of beings are destroyed to continue to fund them, to continue to maintain those structures.
And so there's something in us like an infinite sun, infinite energy.
But the tiny portion that we may experience in our ordinary consciousness is prison-like and profoundly impoverished.
And if we could simply cut through the structure, turn the city off for a moment, we would have so much awareness energy.
The things that had seemed to us impossible or incredibly unlikely would now become commonplace. And I know this firsthand, it's not a theory.
And this is part of the tragedy, but also it's part of the riddle. It's part of the quest.
It's fascinating that we come to human birth endowed this way, like a bird with a thousand kinds of wings, meant to fly in atmospheres we're too timid to dream of with our waking consciousness.
But with which our dreaming awareness is deeply familiar in the sense of recognizing itself within.
I hope for all of you that you may have the opportunity or perhaps that you may embark upon the quest to see beyond the minds our cultures have assembled in us.
And that most of us thereafter work very hard to improve and preserve.
Of course, what improvement means is in this sense somewhat confused, because real improvement would mean liberation from the tool-like utility-like aspects that dominate our waking awareness.
The same is true of language. These things are supposed to serve us, but if they dominate us, we become their slaves. And now our tools have us, rather than we having tools.
And when that happens, we are lost to ourselves and each other, we're trapped in a very peculiar way that's surprisingly difficult to step out of.
It would be amazing if it were a simple thing, and I could just say a few words to you, and you would suddenly a crack would appear in the strata, and the crack would go to its root, and the strata would shatter into glistening, sparkling brilliance, and we could awaken together.
In that moment, in wonder and an amnesis, in awe and beauty, that would be truly ecstatic. And it's not impossible, but it's uncommon.
So I hope that my talk today, to which your dreaming mind is listening, even if your waking mind is dominating it, may be helpful, may be nourishing.
And that together we can continue on the path to seeing beyond the waking mind and deeply into its origins in history and the development of our species.
Thank you for joining me. It's an honor and a privilege to explore these matters together. Bye-bye for now.
