We adopt the rest from nature and from the stuff the humans engineer.
One thing I find kind of humorous is that analytic, scientific and medically oriented humans will think things like the property is in the kind of bacteria so that, for example, they will give you pills that have probiotics which are grown in a lab.
It's hard to imagine how confused that may be. That may be exactly the wrong thing to do because the probiotics that we acquire when we eat foods grown outside the weaponized landscape of human industry,
then we get organisms that have been relating with other organisms for countless trillions of life years because they are bacteria.
So time for them is not the same thing.
What you get when you take bacteria from a lab should not be called the same thing.
The fact that both of those are bacteria is nearly meaningless.
They are like little living transformers.
What I'm arguing is that the ones that come authentically from nature rather than from bioengineering by humans are different.
You can imagine a human that was grown in a box.
What benefit would you be likely to acquire from relation with them?
Not much. Human grown in the wilderness. What benefit? Lots.
For one thing, if you kiss the human grown in the wilderness, you will get microbiota from the wilderness.
If you eat with the human from the wilderness, you will get microbiota from the wilderness.
There are many cases in English where class and category put us to sleep.
They entrancess so that we think we know what's going on when, in fact, an example from our actual lives would be the death of flavor in tomatoes.
I've eaten actual tomatoes.
I don't know how to describe the efflorescent wonder that happens in my body and my mouth when I chew, you know, taste an actual tomato, which still occasionally happens.
There are other tomatoes, which are technically tomatoes. You don't want to eat them ever.
I'm not sure if they have leucopenia or whatever the chemistries that tomato bursting with flavor might have.
I doubt it. It seems impossible that they're the same thing. They are in language.
We have the same problem with our nations and civilizations.
Many people will come to me and argue. This is the greatest nation on earth.
All you need to do is move those letters around a little bit.
The greatest nation on earth is missing in action. It's gone.
Because all of its functions are zombie functions that cannot serve their intended purposes,
because to do so would be to defect from ensuring their nominal immortality over the short term.
I was listening to an author.
If I can see who it is.
Probably. Let's find out.
It's either Annie Johnson or Annie Jacobson.
I think she was on Chris Williams' podcast. I may have both of those names wrong.
My mind is otherwise occupied at the moment, but she had written a book.
I think just entitled Nuclear War.
If you've been listening to my recent recordings,
you may note that Eric Weinstein is very concerned about the humans getting off earth,
because he's an intelligent, insightful human being, I think.
It's obvious to him that we'll be lucky to last a decade under current circumstances.
Let me explain why he might think that.
We need to get off planet.
I'm pretty sure that outside of earth, many intelligences exist.
Just like if we lived on an island in the Pacific, and we'd never gone to the other continents,
there might be humans who would think we are the only people there are.
We are the people. We are the people. We are the people.
This is how humans pretend this.
Even though they see all around them myriad life forms derived from the features of spacetime,
endless giraffes and elephants and whales and all these beings.
They see this and they think, no, this is the only one.
You can think that if you want.
It's very unlikely to be true, because in a glass of water what you won't get
are examples of things that aren't in the water and aren't in the context.
That's the argument to accidental mechanical origination of life on earth.
It was just, you know, this planet got lucky with the right variables and the right substances
in the right situation that life just bubbles out of that.
Very fucking unlikely, wildly unlikely.
So if physics is communication, this adds a lot of momentum to my suggestion
that physics is intentionally encrypted.
There used to be a universal language and it was very important to put an end to that
in the humans to scatter the languages and make them incomprehensible to one another.
The putative purpose there was to keep us from attacking heaven.
Why would anyone be interested in keeping the humans from attacking heaven?
Well, because they will.
They're more interested in weapons than relationships, than gods, than survival,
than their children, than living planets.
Weapons are the ultimate reason for human existence, apparently, at the broad scale.
The only thing that that accomplished the confusion of the languages was making it take a bit longer.
Of course, that was combined with things like worldwide flooding, earthquakes, ice ages,
occasional catastrophic impacts from space, possibly actual weapons being detonated here by NHIs or ancient humans.
Though most people have been trained to exclude both of those possibilities, that's unfortunate
because the universe is vastly more complex, intelligent, and alive than our parochial nonsense
that we were drilled with by physicalist, materialist science and philosophy.
It's no wonder they think organisms are just machines.
Their minds have emulated their products to the degree that they've evicted 80% of their available functions
and senses and opportunities, and they want to make sure they're evicted for everyone.
This is a militaristic dogma, materialism, particularly in science, and it's a fierce one.
If you, as a scientist, suggest that things look a bit more complex than the straight materialist arguments could possibly explain,
you can kiss your tenure goodbye, and probably your private life too.
The cohort you chose will come after you in numbers.
So the author I was listening to had written a book on nuclear war,
and I previously read an amazing book that I would strongly recommend, which is called Thinking in an Emergency by Elaine Scarry.
And Scarry lives up to her name, but she's a very articulate, intelligent analyst,
and what she's talking about are the different plans in different countries for civil defense.
And I think she names, I can't remember all three countries, but it's Switzerland, possibly Finland or Norway, and the United States.
And if I recall correctly what she says, it goes something like this.
In Finland and Norway, something like a very high percentage, let's call it 70% or 80% of the civil defense budget,
goes specifically to protecting the citizens of their country in the event of either a war or a coup, both.
So that means physical shelters in every house.
It means tunnels inside mountains that contain hospitals, libraries, universities, military barracks.
It means protecting the citizens.
If I recall correctly again, the civil defense budget of the United States is primarily deployed, 97% of it or something,
to protect one man, the resident, and maybe conceivably a few members of the cabinet.
Here's how much gets spent to protect citizens of the United States, effectively nothing, nothing.
Why would that be?
Because in the event of a nuclear war, there will not be any citizens of the United States.
There's nothing to protect.
Those people will all be gone, and they'll be gone in a heartbeat.
So the agenda of the civil defense budget in the United States has nearly nothing to do with protecting American citizens.
It is presumed there won't be any.
Now that's pretty fascinating by itself, because it demonstrates that any discussion of the well-being of the citizens of our country
is effectively controverted by the actual situation, agendas, functions, and behaviors of our government.
Let me get really clear about what that means.
It means that in our time, and probably for some time before our time,
the well-being of the citizens of the United States is a kind of a behind-your-hand joke.
It is nominal in that officials and authorities will speak as if that's the prevailing goal,
when the actual prevailing goal is to engineer a situation that disposes of them.
And there are various different ways to go about that.
One may presume, I believe, that there are in the United States vast networks of underground bunkers,
possibly even things resembling cities, military installations for certain,
that would protect and possibly preserve the lives of people with enough wealth, power, or influence to weasel their way onto that list
and to have a plan to get there within 60 minutes of a launch, because that's about how much time you might have, possibly less.
So there is a plan in some probably shadow branch of our government to preserve, at least as long as possible, in the event of a nuclear war,
a fragment of our population, but primarily the people who will be preserved are the people we won't need anymore because we won't be here.
Their provisional protection of us will not only come to an end, it will flip over, and there will be no protection for us.
We may even be, you know, it's really easy to get away with a crime that you can't be accused of.
This is the whole idea of having an alibi, and if factions within the United States government decided that we're going to pull the trigger
so that from now on all remaining resources come to us, say the 0.006%, 0.0003% of the U.S. population that can be sequestered.
There's a science fiction story here where they do the sequestering pre-launch, and then they just engineer a crisis.
There's all kinds of really scary science fiction scenarios here.
I want to be really clear about the situation we're actually in because, you know, Eric was saying he'd like to see rare and probably low yield atmospheric nuclear tests.
I think that's a terrible idea, but he is right about one thing, kind of, which is that the modern people have no idea.
They don't realize that our nation and the governments of the world have placed a series of straight razors against every artery accessible from the surface of our body.
And, you know, if anybody moves at the first sight of blood, everyone dies. Everyone. Now.
Not over weeks or months or years or hundreds of years immediately. Everyone dies.
So let's make a few analogies of this just to drive the point home, because Eric thinks that if we're properly scared by our understanding of nuclear war, we might do something.
And I would argue back that frightening, helpless, disoriented people is a mean and mostly useless move.
The only possibility for meaningful orientation of the people is to give them a way to be something different that takes the reins away from the zombie functions that presently run our planet.
And places them where they belong in the hands of the actual people.
And in the hands of the actual people, unencumbered by propaganda and bullshit and lying and so forth, we would dismantle those weapons, just as John F. Kennedy probably intended to do before they snuffed him.
And probably Khrushchev too, but Khrushchev couldn't if Kennedy wouldn't.
So, you know, the powers then operant in and as our government in the United States.
Hard to say exactly who those people were, but one thing that's obviously clear is that the president is not the seat of power in our nation.
The seat of power in our nation lies primarily in shadow branches of government, the private sector, quote unquote.
What should that be called? The terminally monumental, like we got to think of some really bad name for the corporations because they keep steering us to end game.
So, let me allow me, and I apologize in advance for needing to do this, but if we want humans to understand the situation with nuclear weapons, just those.
Never mind bioengineered weapons, never mind 19 other things I can point directly at the blades that are sitting against our arteries together right now.
Well, just take your weapons.
Imagine if a company said to you that in order to ensure your safety and the safety of your family and the safety of your lineage,
we have to put a bomb in your house and the bomb will obliterate everything in this house.
If we feel that there's a significant enough threat to your safety, we will detonate the bomb at a time of our choosing.
And if any of these bombs detonate in anyone's house for safe for their safety, all of the bombs will detonate and everyone will die for their safety.
But if somebody came to you and made you an argument like that, they'd have to hold a gun to your head or threaten your children or your ancestors or something to get you to even talk to them.
But this is what has happened. We have imported apocalypse directly into our private personal communal historical lives.
This bomb is in every house on earth and it's like I said earlier, it's like they keep building triggers, they keep building weapons and pointing them at life on earth and the humans and by proxy life on earth.
And then they keep caressing the triggers until one of them blows and then historically that has been a, whenever one of the triggers blows historically and so war ensues, then that's big business for capitalism or communism or anyism,
Nazism, whatever kind of ism you like, that isn't humanism obviously. So previously that's been the biggest business opportunity ever, which is part of why no one really gives a flying fuck about ecology.
I don't care. It's not humans that are doing harm, it's the zombie functions running humans as like dead algorithms in the commercial, political and military behavior of our nations and societies.
And let me be absolutely clear, that stuff will snuff you. It will snuff your children. It will burn the libraries to the ground.
Cynical people will say yes and it's about time. I'm not among their number. I love the humans, I believe in the human experiment, I love nature and biology, the organisms even more.
I love time space, I love everything that is part of existence as we know it on this planet. And I want to protect it, not in language, in fact, in behavior. We must transform the human project.
That bomb is in every house and there's a couple of really thin little threads holding the detonator in the off position and it's spring loaded to go to on with a countdown of 60 minutes.
So this is every human life, every animalian life, every bit of plant life on this planet is currently being held hostage by insane things that are neither human nor civilized nor societies.
They are the dead, lumbering, zombie like vampiric husks of what once might have become societies but intentionally failed to in order to capture.
It's almost like a strange mythic story where one has to wonder how does the altruism turn to omniside under the flag of virtue.
Because every culture raises the flag of virtue. We are the best nation on earth. Let me be really clear to you, it won't fucking matter which nation you live in.
It will not matter at all. If you're being held hostage by a drooling insane psychopath addicted to war, prisons, drugs, rape, you know, every other malignant behavior in action of defection from being human, it will not fucking matter if yours was the good one.
They sink or swim together. The argument that, well, this is, you know, we got to protect the American way, buddy, the American way of life was buried in a fucking swamp in Mississippi 40 years ago, minimum.
They snuffed that thing and buried the corpse everywhere they could and replaced it with functions that signal virtue while accomplishing mostly atrocity and bank account stuffing.
And allow me to be really clear that the human beings in the core positions of power have so defected from humanity that it's, it would be entirely unsurprising if some of the most bizarre claims we've heard about their rituals turned out to be
true. Because the more you defect from your humanity, it's not just a slippery slope, it's a black hole problem. Once you enter the event horizon, they're kind of done for. You're just going to sink to lower and lower.
So it consumes these people from the inside, most of them. And some of them are and have been motivated to actually protect the people and the planet. But it should be obvious that they better keep that under their hat because the entire team has a completely
opposite agenda. So, you know, it's been 50 years that a knife has been sitting on that thread that if it snaps, the bomb in every home on earth will go off over the course of one to two hours.
Yeah, one of the things that Anne was saying that is probably not known by American, most American people, because hopefully, I mean, on the one hand, they're not sitting around thinking about nuclear war because there's no fucking way they can affect it that they can understand.
So someone has to stand up and give them away, right? Somebody's got to come to the podium and give the people something they can actually do together so that they can be together and form a we intentionally to pull those fucking detonators.
I can just hear the arguments against it, but my point is, you know, a straight razor is resting on that thread every day all day long, in such a way that if, again, if one of the bombs goes, if anyone launches, everyone launches.
There's a policy in the United States military that is taken extremely seriously, a couple of policies. The first principle is use it or lose it. In a nuclear exchange, what you don't launch, you lose.
And the other policy is launch on warning. You don't have time to fuck around. You get a warning. You got, you know, if you're lucky, 30 minutes fly time. So you don't sit around equivocating. You launch.
And if, you know, North Korea, for example, launched a nuke, the United States would respond immediately for, you know, in accordance with these protocols.
Again, you got dead fucking functions. You have dead functions with their fingers on nuclear triggers around the world. A few primarily, you know, China, the Soviet Union, North Korea, I don't know what the layout of the nukes are.
I'm sure Britain has some. France has some. Other countries may have some. But it's obvious that the countries that don't have them probably aren't going to need them and won't benefit from having them either way.
Because if you're not a country of the size of China or the Soviet Union or the United States of your small country, launch is a suicide, for sure. I mean, it's a suicide anyway. But for a small country, there's no chance of your country surviving it.
So one of the things that humans don't know is that in the event of a nuclear exchange, which in the author's book she proposes a scenario, which she calls a scenario, where North Korea launches on the United States.
And one of the things that has to happen is that missiles that we would fire from bases in the United States and from probably a good chunk of the ocean, presuming that we were firing missiles from the United States,
these missiles have to cross through Russian airspace to reach their targets. So we can call up the Kremlin and get like, we've been launched on by North Korea. We just want you to be aware that the MERS that are currently entering your airspace aren't actually targeted at you.
Is Russia supposed to believe that? Do you think they don't have launch on warning protocols?
This is why Khrushchev and Kennedy went nuts, like literally out of their minds with terror over what happened during the Cuban Missile Crisis and probably privately arranged to begin the process of disarming the missiles.
At that time, and in many situations since then, some of which we know about, many of which we don't, somebody started to, you know, push that straight razor back and forth along that thin little thread.
And let's be clear, it doesn't take much of a push. All games end there. All minds end there. All of human history ends there. Everything we lied about ends.
You know, we live in a situation where at every moment of every day, various forces are caressing the triggers of apocalypse and winking at each other and playing brinksmanship games for, you know, hegemonical status.
There is no sociological or political or academic purpose more important than dismantling the arsenals of the nations.
And creating a way of being human together where we can actually experiment with meaningful intelligent proposals about how to live together, communicate, and learn.
We must establish something that out-competes the monsters that own our lives.
Together, somehow. I mean, am I willing to work on it? Absolutely I am. I'll work on it 24-7. I'll work on it 10 hours a day till the end of my life, quite happily, with any who are sincere and serious.
And I have some ideas about it. I'm not just making face noises about the danger. In a situation this dire, almost doing any other thing, succeeds very quickly.
I think the humans will eventually discover that what we call physics isn't a set of laws. The universe isn't a courtroom.
There is no judge with a gavel sitting above creation, banging out the stone tablets on which the speed of light and the fine structure constant and Big G, the gravitational constant and other constants,
there's no such thing going on. I was listening the other day to Rupert Sheldrake and he was saying something really profound. I listened to his TED talk which was banned and I think it's a perfect example of what I'm trying to say.
Cancellation was going on long before, quote, culture. Cancellation was the weapon of the entrenched power structures in corporations, the academy, and the government, the governments and the military.
It's taking a little stretch here.
Sheldrake and also Graham Hancock are two minds that come to mind, two names that come to mind, two lives that have been profoundly affected by attempted cancellation and probably in some cases attempted assassination.
Those two things go hand in hand and they weren't cancelled by the proponents of linguistic policing, microaggressions, the dictionary of microaggressions, LGBTQ plus rights.
They were not cancelled by left-leaning liberals, LLLs.
They were cancelled by a sort of what, a conspiracy of doctrine, what really is in effect an old boys club and a secret society that's half secret and half oblivious to its own existence.
Where doctrine in 18-something somebody said, some guy said, the pyramids were built by grinding stones with ordinary tools.
And from then on, anyone who said anything else was, you know, put to the inquisition.
Sheldrake was saying something really trippy. He was saying, see if I can remember it.
I think he was talking about nine or ten fallacies of modern science.
But one of them is that the constants are constants.
He went and looked at old physics texts, early texts that provided measurements for the speed of light.
And he discovered something very peculiar, something that shouldn't happen in science yet, happens all the time.
He discovered that light had been measured, I think it was 20 kilometers per second slower.
