And many of the measurements agreed, you know, within tolerances.
And so he went to, I mean, it's hilarious where he went.
He went to like the institution whose job it is to establish, correct and maintain measurements.
And he spoke with the gentleman who was running this organization apparently.
And he said, you know, I went and looked and the speed of light was different.
And the guy told him some really bizarre story in which they had decided to generalize the speed of light
and to establish the meter, right, a physical space measurement of a meter in those terms,
thereby making it impossible to get any differing measurement at any time in the future.
In other words, they rewrote what they measured the speed of light against
so that it would always produce the same result, whether it were varying or not.
And they had done something very similar with other constants including big G, gravity.
And research that questioned any of this was proudly dismissed, destroyed, remained unpublished.
So, you know, once again, what science might be for humans and what it actually is for humans
are nothing like the same thing.
And the latter will keep producing nooses that tighten not only around the neck of every living being.
They have the capacity to snuff the whole experiment.
And people are like, oh, the earth's resilient, you know, don't worry.
Well, Mars was probably resilient once too.
You know, you might have a few microbes and possibly some underground bases there,
but those aren't Martians.
If there are beings there, they're not from Mars.
And those microbes don't help you much, right?
If your only incarnation option is a bacteria, you're going to have a rough life
and you're going to have to have a lot of them to get anything done.
So, you know, I don't want to just present the shadow, but we need to really take a cold, hard look
at these features of our situation as modern humans together.
We need to take a look with and for each other.
We need to take a look with the purpose of understanding, preserving, actually protecting each other,
life on earth, and the history and future of the grand experiment of this living planet
and within that, the human experiment, the human branch of that experiment.
You know, if the earth is a being, she must be extremely confused about the behavior of her humans.
You know, if there's something that resembles an oncologist for a living planet
and earth somehow, you know, looked to visit,
the results of that visit would be absolutely terrifying.
You know, I'm sorry, Terra invisibilis, but your most complex species of animal has gone batshit malignantly insane
and is metastasizing, we're going to have to turn the volume down on that right away
and that might mean killing most or all of them.
Unless the oncologists were really, you know, really intelligent and really wise
and also anciently experienced, right?
The oncologists had done this for many living worlds.
In my case, the oncologists might say,
okay, we need to burn off the zombie function running people
and preserve enough culture that you can regrow the species.
And we need to implant in the survivors the imperative to protect living beings.
Above all other bullshit, right?
Protect living beings because time space may have many, many living worlds,
but each one of them is very precious locally and produces, you know, does things, right?
It's actually up to something, living planets are up to something
that contributes to the well-being of living planets all over the place
and stars are involved in this conspiracy.
This is a conspiracy of beings, not objects.
Beings with children like us.
So, my friends, it is evening on the day when we lost an hour.
It's interesting, okay, right, I see.
I was not fundamentally aware of that until later in the day.
I am grateful for this time together and that our world still has an atmosphere for the moment.
Business as usual will not continue, mark my words.
Something, nine things wicked this way come.
And they wear human faces, but they aren't human.
And they wear the faces of nations, but they are not nations.
And they wear the faces of benefactors, but they are not benefactors.
So, let us turn our minds and hearts in a direction that leads to something resembling the end of the house bombs
and the end of the institutions that manage and propagate them.
I will, I am, I agree.
Thank you for joining me.
I look forward to learning together.
To see better, to see more clearly, again, very soon.
May your life be beautiful and your dreams enriching.
Bye-bye for now.
