Hello everybody.
Welcome.
I'm going to be talking about some very charged things today.
But before I get started, I just want to express my gratitude for very basic features of human
existence like being upright, that we still have a breathable atmosphere, that some fragment
of the anciently conserved ecology's birth still thrives today.
I'm here walking around the San Francisco Parks and Recs version of a habbitrail.
Raven's grabbing up some, what does he or she like?
He likes the leafless roots of an ivy plant.
He's got about five of them, long strands in his or her beak, and is now heading for a nesting location while being observed as usual probably by the female in this case.
Among birds that mate, and lots of them mate for life, mallards aren't among them.
The white cheeks, the geese are.
I'm not certain about the corvids preferred habits, but whether or not they mate for life and it appears they do.
For example, I will see the same female with the same male over a period of many years.
I will know this because I can recognize individual birds.
It's something we are not trained to do usually as modern humans, but something that when we are in a living place with other living beings, it's not merely handy, it's not merely utilitarian.
We can learn all kinds of things about being alive, having a mind or being animals.
We can also learn astonishing things about being human animals by observing beings that have been literally embodying the same tradition life paths,
and traditionally embodied life paths that each of them have.
Some of them don't move, at least they don't leave their spot, trees and bushes, herbs and grasses, what we call weeds and so on.
They travel vicariously on the wind via pollen.
So they travel, but they travel in an encrypted form.
And then all of the other creatures who actually have ways of traveling, they can swim or fly or crawl or run, or all three.
So by observing these creatures, we can learn a lot.
I have learned a lot, though I find the language a bit sketchy.
I went to an auction, I bid on a lot, and I learned it because of animal help.
But yes, instead of an auction, I'm at the library of the possibilities of human cognition or intelligence.
Meaning the library of what is possible for humans, like myself.
What is accessible, and what branches of that library are we trained to ignore, dispose of, denigrate, explain away with mechanics.
Oh, it's just a machine. The duck is just a machine. It's just a biological machine.
It's a duck factory. Its whole purpose for existing is simply to make other ducks and nothing else.
I think it's funny, if the scientists had their way, we'd have to picture them holding a gun, directed at any and every form of life on Earth.
And declaring, very tyrannically, reproduce now. Reproduce, that's what you're here for.
It's the argument to function. And as regards organisms, it must be wrong.
Whatever, you know, the scientists say there's no teleology, right? There's no purpose in nature.
We've found no evidence of purpose. Hilariously, the purpose that drove the scientists to find no evidence is, knock, knock, ding dong, ding dong, right?
Actually a purpose in nature. And it's the purpose of finding that there's no purpose.
In this case, the scientists are hoisted by Goetels-Petard, right? Which, if I've misunderstood it properly, goes something like this.
In any formal system capable of producing the functionality we associate with arithmetic, and perhaps times tables,
there must be either, A, true formal statements within the system that cannot be encoded within that system,
and B, false statements within the system that can be proven.
That last one sounds impossible, and I never really understood that previously.
I got this from a lecture on physics's information that I was listening to yesterday, and by all means listen to lectures on this topic.
This is really interesting. The teacher, it was like a zine class, and I can link it later.
The teacher made some fascinating observations about the history of physics from thermodynamics through the definition of entropy.
And by the way, his definition of entropy was so trippy to me. I mean really mind-blowing.
And hopefully I'll give you some beautiful things before I get to the topic that I had in mind.
Okay, so one of the ways that common people think of entropy is as energy loss, or...
Pardon me. It's okay. Nice to see you.
I was trying to avoid...
So one of the ways that we think about entropy is, and some of what I'm going to say here may be wrong scientifically,
but what I'm talking about is if you ask common people who haven't spent much time studying the topic...
They might say something like,
entropy is the homogenization of a matter so that the universe tends toward the undisturbed energy state of a physical system
will eventually homogenize so that it's all the same temperature,
and maybe even it's all the same substance, end of the universe-ium, right?
So that there's this idea that the universe will die of heat death, which if I understood it correctly is something like...
a state where the universe is a single homogenous temperature and probably a single homogenous substance.
There's nothing going on anymore, infinite boredom forever after that.
Whether something like that exists, I really can't say, or is even reasonably possible, I don't know.
But I recall hearing a theory somewhat like this.
And we're all very concerned with death in our own ways,
or at least we're very concerned with avoiding thinking about it or doing anything about it,
unless we have the intention to somehow become immortal by hook-crook mechanism or deal with the devil.
Obviously, if one could make a quote deal with the devil, the best deal you could make would appear to be to never die,
and that way never have to pay.
It's like an infinite loan, a loan with an infinite term.
And if a loan had an infinite term, by the way, something very peculiar about it,
it doesn't matter how much of the term has elapsed thus far.
The call date, the date that the sum becomes due, you never get any closer to it.
Infinity is some really weird stuff.
It's not a big number.
We often think infinity is a really big number.
No, it's not a big number.
Infinity is an endless layered array of numerisms,
or in some cases, one could say infinities represent the event horizon of mathematics,
because certain concepts and ideas and stuff produce a profusion of infinities,
thereby largely ruining the utility, in many cases anyway, of the math that does this.
Turns out that there are weird problems in mathematics that require sort of tricks.
One of them is called renormalization in quantum physics or quantum field theory.
Not sure if it's QFT or where renormal.
Yeah, it's probably QFT.
And many brilliant mathematicians who worked in the field and were experts,
sort of shook their heads from side to side and said,
shit, as long as we have renormalization, we sure as fuck don't know what's going on anymore.
We can make the math work, but we're missing fundamental.
It's obvious that we're missing fundamental understandings.
And the same kind of remark is often made when equations produce a profusion of infinities,
which are sometimes understood as tiny black holes.
In any case, entropy.
So I'm not sure what's common these days, because it's been a long time since I've done any reading in this field.
But back in the 70s and 80s, actually 80s and 90s, when I was reading more biology and stuff like
Machirana and what the keys to knowledge was that book.
Machirana.
Can't remember the other author at the moment.
Definitely want to recommend that book.
It's on the concept of auto places in biology.
In any case, it was long claimed that
organisms were negentropic in that they could sort of hitchhike on contextual features
so that they became homeostatic, in a way, self-generative entities.
And at least on living planets, something like the opposite of entropy is happening as organisms.
Now that may not be the modern understanding or a common modern understanding.
But the teacher of this course defined entropy in a really trippy way that I'd never heard before.
And I'm a bit naive about such matters, even though I like to read about physics and so forth.
Hello.
He defined entropy as a measurement of the number of states a system could be in
that are either inaccessible to us, in other words, there's no way to understand them for humans,
or would have the same external appearance as other familiar states,
for disguising themselves to us.
So the number of states that either we can't know or perhaps don't presently know.
And that's a really different perspective.
I wish I could say it more concisely.
It might be just something as simple as the number of states a system may be in that we don't know.
And then there are different kinds of not knowing.
Impossible, possible, but not understood.
And what else?
Apparently the same as other states, with no way for us to tell the difference between them.
Something like those three, perhaps.
So that was really fascinating and provocative.
You know, when physicists say very stupid things, and maybe they're just doing this to get a rise out of their peers or their audience,
things like, why would any intelligent species cross thousands of light years to visit humans who are stupid and dumb and reckless?
On Earth, we're boring as hell. We can't do anything interesting yet, like traverse space-time.
The problem is, if you have a species that's absolutely bent on weaponizing every finding of science that they possibly can,
in a breakneck race, to mutual annihilation, you have a species that's doing that at the group level.
It doesn't matter that there are good humans, or, you know.
Even groups of humans that are not particularly harmful.
What matters is sort of the generalization of the curve, and the generalization of the curve is weaponization.
Human groups play zero-sum games with incentives that grow more perverse over time,
meaning that as time proceeds, the seeming benefits of winning, quote-unquote, an unwinnable situation, such as mutually assured destruction,
grow dramatically, so that eventually, in a sense, you have a situation where you've built 19,000 weapons of different kinds,
each with unique triggers, and you just keep caressing those triggers until one of them causes half of them to go off.
So that's the kind of situation you have with humans as a species on Earth.
And the most important thing is to not let that out of the box.
And I have suggested...
So one of the things the professor was saying that was super trippy, and actually makes great sense to me, is that there's a radically different way to think about physics.
It has nothing to do, nothing much to do with particles and forces at all.
If you want weapons, then you want to understand how to direct forces.
If you want intelligence or insight, if you want understanding, if you want wisdom, then you will...
You will massage the data in order to squeeze out of it the ideas.
The features of physics, time-space metric, gravity, light, and its movements, entanglement, quantum electrodynamics, all these things...
These are models of the underlying nature of physical phenomena.
And as such, they give you ways of thinking about identity, value, nature, function, origin, meaning that without them are impossible, or at least appear to be.
I suppose you could catch them.
You could inherit them from a being that was carrying them and was capable of and motivated to communicate them to you.
Which perhaps is part of why some people, very few last, listen to my recordings.
My hope, actually, is that we together can create and discover ideas that will radically alter our experience of being human and the opportunities that we can pursue in our lifetimes in such a way as to live meaningful lifetimes,
not according to some societal standard, according to the standards from which all other standards are derived, those of the universe, creation, nature, however you want to paint some face noises on the foundational situations.
And probably the foundational situations are not physical in the ways that we are inclined to suppose.
They are not physical in the ways we teach our children.
They are not physical in the ways we suggest, imply, assert, or demand of each other, meaning they are not nearly physical.
The materialist agenda in science and philosophy is going to paint a lot of people's faces with two in the long haul, presuming that we get to have one.
So what the teacher was saying, and this is probably well known in the discipline of physics, I had just never encountered it directly.
I've been very interested in information theory, and particularly certain specific domains of linguistics as they relate to cognition, and particularly what I might refer to as psycholinguistics, at least in theory, if not in academic formalisms.
I've long been interested in these matters as a creative person, as an artist, a poet, a writer, and something I might describe as a citizen researcher, meaning someone who runs experiments to try to improve my awareness of complex features of a topic that otherwise tends to get trivially dismissed with a label.
The terribly unfortunate thing about being human is that once you can pronounce the word as complex as psycholinguistics, you're inclined to think you understand what it refers to.
There's a balloon popping value to saying the phrase quantum electrodynamics. Ordinary people are like, what the fuck does he know about quantum electrodynamics?
Well, what do I actually know? In my case, it would be a little difficult to say. Let's say I read Feynman's QED, which is a book that tells the history, and teaches any practitioner how to do scattering diagrams, which is pretty fucking crazy.
You've got a broken monkey running around on Earth, half insane, and they can sit down with a piece of paper and a pencil and a little bit of data and produce scattering diagrams.
Of course, to actually understand scattering, you have to produce hundreds of thousands of those diagrams, probably, which is unrealistic for a human, but entirely, coherently realistic for machines.
I don't know a lot about QED. I understand basic features of the concept is what I would say if someone asked me.
I know the phrase. I know what a scattering diagram is. I know something about who Richard Feynman was, and there's a book about it, which I've read a couple of times, and I love reading.
Again, because I don't intend to run scattering diagrams, but the concepts encrypted inside the findings of science, that stuff is the actual value.
The value isn't what can we build with it to kill each other into everything that moves and much of what doesn't.
I just want to be really clear. That is not the value of scientific discovery.
And as I've argued many times in the past, and as I've failed to enact myself, if I am indeed a citizen researcher, is that...
I think it's funny when Eric Weinstein says, is that? Is that? It double-izzes it. I think that's pretty tricky linguistically.
A scientist that was actually ethical, if the humans were intelligent, they would establish a system together for each other in the future of life on Earth
that prohibited the weaponization of scientific findings for profit, war, coercion, or any other use.
The problem was, apparently, our civilizations, our societies, what we call nations and states and so forth, these are lethally armed zombie functions that will end our lives.
If we manage to survive through some series of life phases as a human being, and then pass away, quote-unquote, naturally, then it won't be true for us personally.
It will be true for everyone that we love. It will be true for most, if not all, of nature around here.
So, apparently, our nations think the living planet is a hostage you point a gun at, and then you squeeze it ever more tightly to produce short-term benefits for tyrannical hegemonies inside and outside governments,
the prison-military-corporate-industrial complex, that's a moniker that keeps getting new, that's an octopus that keeps growing new arms.
I think it used to be just the military-industrial complex, then it was the military-prison-industrial complex, then it was like the military-prison-industrial-memetic complex, and it just keeps getting a new tentacle every so often, every few years, much faster these days than it used to grow tentacles.
This brings me to my point, but before I go there, if we ask basic questions about our nations and our societies, they will flunk those questions.
Are they intelligent? Absolutely not. Are they bent on destroying life on Earth? Absolutely they are. Are they spending most of their money to kill? Yes, they are.
Do they make money by killing? Yes, they do. Do they make money from putting people in prison? Yes, they do. Do they get power from these things? Yes, they do.
Do they lie to children about the nature of humanity, identity, reality? Yes, they do. Do they do this inveterately? Yes, they do.
Is there anything standing in the way of them just becoming more virulent over time? No, there is not. Nothing. There's no buffer, there's no kill switch, there's nothing.
Are they heartless and inhuman? Yes, they are.
Will they stop at nothing to continue these bizarre and lethal regimes, game theoretical nightmares, and the weaponization of everything that can possibly be consumed and or captured?
Yes, they will do that so hard that if we get five more years it'd be a miracle. What do I mean by if we get five more years? Well, explain that.
So, the stuff that we're calling society and civilization is short-term unsurvivable, and anybody who's got much of a few brain cells left can see that.
And in a situation where anyone can see that, you quickly enter a race to the bottom where the primary players will throw down, and when they do throw down, if they haven't already, if it's not happening this moment in five or ten ways that we're not very well equipped to detect,
then our lives, the entire human project, the entire history of the human project on this planet will be snuffed like a fucking candle in an hour, not over weeks or months or years, on a single day at a single time.
I'll get to that. Now, what I found trippy about the professor's lecture was he implied that physics is fundamentally a topic that if you're not, he didn't say that if you're not trying to build weapons with it, but it's obvious.
It's a topic of how information and transformations are communicated across various kinds of boundaries. It's a communications topic. It's a signaling topic.
And that makes so much sense to me, because for any species that wasn't oriented to make infinite machines until they die, or to produce every weapon they can possibly imagine, and then some, they would look at nature and see something blatantly obvious.
It is a chorus. It is a synchronized, orchestral symphony of unimaginable age and sophistication and profundity. Profundity of origin, nature, form, purpose, yes, telos, and intelligence.
You know, people will argue, well, our nations can give us cars and houses and central heating and stoves and distributed water and sewage systems to protect us from disease and so forth.
We could do that too. In fact, it's actually us doing that. We're just doing it inside a set of dead inside algorithms that will snuff our species, left to their infinitely malignant and captured present forms.
I mean, so what I really loved about what the teacher was saying was, and the class is physics as information, and obviously he's going to define information.
One way of understanding it is intelligible or intelligent, sometimes intentional, transformation energy exchanged between what we might think of as reference frames.
And that definition, I mean, I would argue that the real definition is probably something much weirder and more beautiful and not analytic and not abstract.
In other words, presuming that our nervous systems are not the only locus of intelligence in our body being that all of our tissues are forged from cells.
Cells that themselves were forged from a single pair of cells, pluripotent cells became specific body tissues and organs and so forth, including the nervous system during the process of embryogenesis.
And then post embryogenesis, when the fetus is launched effectively into the outer space of the physical environment, it then transforms an attempted synchrony in concordance with that environment in various ways,
including picking up some 35 trillion approximately bacteria over time and being colonized by those bacteria.
Were we not being colonized by the bacteria, we would not be alive.
Our kind of animal is born half complete in terms of cell population.
