there's a few films that imply some of these things.
One of them is the film Powder, another one is quite relatively uncommon but brilliant
Man Facing Southeast, K-Pax is a sort of Americanized version of something like this
and what I'm trying to say is these films don't show us what we are, they're like they
show us one ten thousandth of what we are but it's the one ten thousandth that mostly
gets ignored and gets replaced by you know commercial versions of stardom and the commodification
of prodigy that happens in science and technology, in performing arts and so on and so forth.
So most of us are, it really is as though we're in a kind of trap right and there's nearly
no one who can stand with us, there's no cohort yet that I've found, that can stand
with us and encourage and nurture the true basis and purposive intelligences that underlie
our existence as embodied intelligences as human beings.
And we are not merely human beings, that's the other important thing.
We are so much more than human that if you're limited to thinking about our humanity you're
looking at a ten thousandth of what you are, that's what I'm trying to communicate.
And all of us are carrying the seeds of faculty so astonishing, the capacity to heal with
the touch of a hand, the capacity to physically travel without machines, the capacity to touch
other minds and participate not just with other intelligences that we have never dreamed
of but with entire networks of intelligences that there's no evidence of around here at
all in our representations.
The closest thing we have are things like religions or science fiction stories or fantasy stories
and it should be obvious that those stories come from somewhere, right?
They're not pure inventions, it's not possible to purely invent something.
What happens is there are intuitions and there are forms of knowledge that seem to be forbidden
around here, forms of awareness that are forbidden and those are what get encoded in the fantastic
stories in our cartoons, in the magical stories, in stories and ideas about the supernatural
and in the kind of cultish, bizarre, and I don't want you to get trapped in the ephemera
of the cultish bizarre ideas about psychism or channeling or any of this crap, right?
Almost all of that is designed for the marketplace and nearly everything you're carrying is precisely
the opposite of that.
It doesn't want anything to do with being packaged and sold.
It wants to be experienced as your own life, in your own life, in your own unique way with
other human beings who can understand and celebrate that without repackaging it and producing
a bunch of bizarre derivations or cults or anything like that.
We need liberty together and by liberty I don't just mean the freedom to explore and
to path find and to return these faculties to our common experience together.
I mean the liberty from packaging them, from deciding what they are, what they are for
and how they should be enacted, right, should is the problematical word there.
So I'm a little bit inspired this evening and that's exciting and I hope some of that
enthusiasm comes across to my listeners and my viewers and I'm just so grateful to have
this chance with you this evening to remember together some of the lost potential of our
lives and our, the urgencies in our hearts, the unspoken urgencies of our human hearts.
So thank you.
May we rediscover and remember them together.
I look forward to learning together again sometime very soon.
