Hello, thank you for joining me. My name is Darren Stevenson. Today is Thursday, January
16, 2014. It's 10.50 a.m. There are a lot of topics on my mind this morning, but I think
there are two specifically that I want to talk about. The first is the inadequacy of
our models. The models that were given of what a human being is, what an animal is, what
intelligence looks like, what our minds are, what the universe is, what time is, what relation
means, what ecologies are. I'm very worried about all these models because they're largely
promulgated by experts who are disconnected from what they're modeling. In most cases,
they're catastrophically disconnected. In order to say anything at all, they have to
throw away 97% of what's true, and then they want to pretend that the remaining 3% is somehow
valuable, intelligent expert, and so on. This is as true of the sort of religious experts
and the scientific experts and the medical experts and the philosophical experts, the
artificial intelligence experts, the psychologists, the neuroscientists, the biologists. Almost
all of them are so disconnected from what they're talking about that before they even
make a move, they've got to throw 97% of the truth away and then pretend that it doesn't
exist just to keep talking. So that's the first issue that I want to be really clear
about. Whatever you've been told about what it means to be human by any kind of authority
is 97% wrong. When you see people who appear to you to be superhuman, like some kind of
a sports performer, a parkour expert, a martial artist, Einstein, any kind of extremely high-performing
person who seems to even be leading the planet in a new direction, what you're seeing there
is not a superhuman. You're actually seeing a subhuman that's gotten a tiny bit of a clue
about the fact that everything that they were told is wrong. Everything. Including the people
who are telling you that they think they know this, those people are also wrong. The reason
is kind of simple. Most of what we are and can be is A, completely unknown to us, and
B, partly unspecified, which means it's in a superposition of states. You have to call
it into being to discover what it might be. Now one thing that's really important about
that is that you can never arrive at the answer to a what question by testing. Here's the
reason. Testing does not draw the superposition down into expression. All it does is measure
the slaves who've been told what to be and kind of measures like how well they understand
the rules that have been described to them. Most of our medical technology is absolutely
wrong. It's a mechanical technology for an organismal being. It doesn't work. They threw
away 90% of our bodies, which is the bacterial subcultures. Actually more than 90% because
along with bacterial subcultures, which are 90% of the cells in your body by number, 90.
They threw all that away. When they say you're a DNA, they're not talking about those. They're
talking about 10% of your cells. 10. When you go to the doctor, what they're treating
is a fraction, such a tiny fraction of that, that it would be as if you came to a 40 story
building on fire and what you did was try to put out a matchstick on the front porch
and you brought like 10 million armies to do that when actually it just took like one
drop of water. And that one isn't going to affect the fire on the house at all. Now,
you might say, well, if that's true, why can we get success in medical outcomes? Well,
we can because we focused so narrowly on the specific forces and symptoms of the outcome
that we can just sort of surgically excise them. And that's kind of our goal. Unfortunately,
those excisions, much like our criminals in our culture, were actually signals about
problems in our ecology and our relational environment that we're ignoring. And so when
we ignore them, we have to build hospitals and prisons to deal with the signals. And what do
we do with those signals? We amputate them. We don't trace them back to their sources. We
don't determine what the actual effect efficacy of our idea or methods are. We just sort of pump
ourselves up and say, you know, we're the experts, we know what to do. And we're going to charge you
every possible fee now and in the future to do that to you. When I say all of the models are
wrong, I want to give you a really clear idea about what I mean. The thing that you have in
your skull that they call a brain is not separate from all of nature and all of time. It can't be.
It was born in those relationships of those relationships. Now, what that means actually
is that your mind is at least as sophisticated as the entire universe of time space. But what
they sell you is like a little pencil tip thing that actually can't be or do anything if it
merely follows the definition they made of your mind, which is this tiny thing instead of all of
relation. Now, the other thing is that the wrong idea about the age of the universe because they're
measuring it in flat human solar orbital years. So let me just be really blunt. If you spin one
human around the sun one time on a planet, that's one human life year. But if you spend 7 billion
of them, that's 7 billion human life years. And I don't know how many stars there are in the
universe, but each one of those is a relational participant. So what that means is that the
actual age of the universe is so ridiculous that it's an unthinkable amount of time. What's
really interesting about that is that you yourself, even if you spend one human around the sun one
time, you have 50 trillion animal cells, 500 trillion bacterial cells, probably 5000 trillion
viral objects. And who knows how many fungal artifacts. So when you spend that around the
sun one time, and those organisms are living at a different rate of time, and they're also
relating with each other, creating other modes of time in you, that's not one year old. That's
much older than our model of the estimate of the age of the universe, which means that the organ
in your skull is actually many factors, the age, the stated age and complexity of the universe as
we understand it. Of course, our understanding is, as I said, very limited. So the first thing I
want you to understand is that your mind is a power unlike anything humans can describe to you.
It is impossible with language or description to get anywhere near what you're carrying. But
strangely enough, because you use language and are representational like I am, you can be told what
that mind is in such a way that shuts down 90 or more percent of its ability to be itself. The
same way that when you walk into any kind of relationship with an expert, you're going to be
told things that seem to be unassailably true and powerful, but are actually completely invented
falsehoods that pump up the expert's seeming expertise, power, ability to make change and to
make policy and to earn money and to dominate other people and collectives with false ideas and
knowledge. You're going to be subject to that person and the paradigms that they serve. Now,
what we have in false collectives, which almost all of our collectives are false, particularly
the religious and New Age collectives that are most popular, wildly falsified, what you have
here are experts telling you your roles. And whenever that's going on, something's being hidden
that's really explosively, astonishingly, frighteningly amazing. And that's something
it's you. It's your mind. In fact, you are such an astonishing thing that if you had any idea what
you were, you'd have no interest whatsoever in human collectives, stories, books, films, media or
anything. You would be learning and being and growing so heroically that the accomplishments of
geniuses and sports teams would seem tedious to you, because your own accomplishments in almost
every moment of relation and thought would exceed them dramatically. That's what you were born to
be into. I think I'm going to stick with just that topic because it's complex enough and simple
enough that I can make a separate video about the other topic that's bothering me, which is climate
change. Really briefly, I'm going to say one simple thing about this. The defining problem of our
generation is not climate change, although we are about to suffer extreme repercussions from the
causes of that. The actual problem is that we're addicted to ideas and relationships with machines,
products, garbage, little chotskies, bad food, poisoned environments. And so we're so addicted to
these things that we're actually wiping out living relational ecologies that are billions of times
the age of the universe as we understand it. Those are irreplaceable. And the function of one of
those ecologies, even a single animal in 60 seconds, is more valuable than the entire history of
human technological advancement. I want to be really clear about that. The actual relational
activities of a single cell in your body in one second are more profound than the entire history
of human computation, all of it, one cell. Yet you have experts running around who want to tell
you that they can build an artificial intelligence. Here's the problem. They don't have the slightest
idea what intelligence is. And they're not demonstrating any. They're burning it down for
their models. Nothing can survive that. No living ecology or being in your body is an ecology immersed
in ecologies can survive that. It's impossible. What you can do if your world is so robustly,
abundantly alive is you can keep forcing those ecologies to absorb and protect you from the
impact of your own lethal stupidity for a short period of time, geologically speaking, about 10
seconds, or maybe less, maybe one second, geologically speaking. We're now in that one
second window where the history of our entire history, the entire history of our hubris,
technological insanity, and the conversion of living networks into dead objects is about to
start catching up with us in waves. And one of the domains of signaling about that, one of them,
is climate. The actual problem has nothing to do with the climate or whether it's man-caused or
the planet is causing it, or some other force is causing it. What it actually has to do with,
is that we're absolutely addicted to replacing living ecologies with dead, non-relational,
poisoned space, unstructured, unstructurable, unsurvivable. Our automobiles are a technology
that any intelligent species would never allow to have more than 100 of those on the planet at
any one time, ever. And we're massively reproducing them just like viruses, just like gigantic
viruses. They surround our city blocks. We support them madly with all of our effort we pay so that
they can occupy space and they run our lives. They run our nations. We make wars over them. We
poison the environments in 15 different ways all day long with them. And this is just one example.
I could name a thousand examples like that. So the first thing I want you to understand is that
experts are blind. They're blind by nature. It doesn't mean that their field of expertise isn't
useful. It is. But when they start telling us what things are, our roles, what our health is,
what medicine means, what intelligence means, what democracy means, what we can be or can't be
together, they're wrong. And in my own personal relationships with experts, and I have many
because I happen to work with a wide variety of them. I work with scientists all around the
world in a scientific editing firm that I built. So we tell scientists how to say what they're
trying to say better than doing that for 10 years now. What I want you to understand is in my own
relationships with experts, there are two very important features that are that are crucial
notice. The first is a truly intelligent expert is an amazing asset. But every one of them will
have 30 blind spots surrounding their expertise. But they are unequipped to even notice and
in many cases, will not allow the perception of to emerge into their consciousness, they won't
allow it under any circumstances. So what this this is like if you tried to make a pair of like
sunglasses, but they only had one lens that fit in the middle of your eye and the, and the things
that normally hold them on your ears went into your eyes and then stuck in your brain and like
started damaging you. So you got this lens right in the middle of your face that you can't see
with. That lens is useful in an incredibly narrow set of contexts that have to be informed by lots
of other kinds of intelligence and awareness in order to be actually survivable. Again, the
problem is not climate change, but we're about to see radical swings back and forth between heat
and cold as our planet attempts to deal with the fact that we've given her a fever in the words
of James Lovelock, who however demented he may be in his advancing age, or maybe he's already
passed away. He got that number, right? We've given the earth a fever. And in case you don't know
what having a fever is like, first you're sweating, then you're freezing. Okay, that's exactly what
we're going to be going through. Climate change isn't problem. The problem is we've wiped out the
ecologies that mediate the homeostatic environment of the cell that is earth. I want to be really,
really blunt about this. We don't know what earth is. No one does. But I'll tell you a simple fact.
Whatever you think about human beings, earth is about a billion fold more intelligent than that.
A billion fold, at least, at the very, very least, actually probably so much more intelligent than
numbers just become useless. Let me be really clear about one other thing. An entity that old
and intelligent has friends, and those friends just like your friends or family, they adore her.
Or maybe she doesn't have a gender. In any case, she has friends of kinds that we don't even have
categories for. And they're not very happy with what's going on down here because we're ripping
her part, just as if we were taking our mother and shotgunning her. And with every blast,
she both tries to absorb it so that she doesn't have to kill us to stop us going,
right? But she also signals to her allies, this is what's been going on for at least the past 50
years, probably the past 100. We are the problem. We don't have to be afraid of an incoming projectile
from space that will wipe us out, because we have become an incoming projectile from our own minds
and technologies that will definitely wipe us out in very short order. Whether we have any
time left at all or not is an open question. What that means is we need to act as if we've got a
little time left and start coming to understand our problems with experts, the problems with models,
the problems with the false collectives that we assemble from false expertise and false models
that we have to serve, defend, fight each other over. We don't have any time for that. We need
to start understanding what it means to be a living intelligence in an ecological system of
relationships that if you burn those down, everything dies. I think you'll be able to
understand what I'm talking about very clearly outside of religion, outside of science, outside
of philosophy, outside of experts, book sales, activism, outside of every human culture beyond
all human culture. There's a very simple fact. Biorelational excellence is the nature of life
on earth. Technologies, commerce, false collectives, and even science completely oppose and burn those
down. I want to be really blunt with you about science for a minute. Science is a knowledge
discipline that actually believes and says that it's good to torture living beings 24-7, 365
days a year, billions of them because they're all comprised of cells, torturing living beings all day
long to get false information to support false collectives, false hypotheses, and falsified
lethal outcomes. That is never an authority you can trust. You either put a tight leash on that
authority or it will wipe you out fast because science is not serving purposeive intelligence.
Science is serving lethal masters, deadly purposes, and is so full of its own hubris as a way of knowing
that alone it could wipe the planet out. Its experts are not your friends. You need to put
a leash on those people right now just like I said to have them surrounded by a ring of other forms
of intelligence that steer and inform their purpose. Otherwise, just like all the other experts,
religious, political, military, the law enforcement community, our court system, those things go wildly
haywire the minute they become disconnected from living intelligence and what that means is the
intimacy of purposeive, unified human relation. You and I, with and for each other and the history
of life on earth and the potential of our future life, not for any other idea, collective, book sale,
or authority. You and I, like this, not like that, okay? Like this. Thank you for joining me.
Together, we have a way beyond if we can remember where we come from,
what it means to be alive as a human being with such astonishing assets and the most beautiful
planet that we could ever hope to be born on. Thanks for joining me. Let's rescue each other in our world.
