Hello everybody. Welcome. It's been quite some time since I've made any new
recordings and I'm feeling a little bit nervous and kind of excited. I have
recently returned from an extremely problematical holiday that was a lot
more like, I don't know, a prison sentence than a vacation or a birthday or a holiday.
So part of the wonderful exuberant joy of my recent experience was becoming
extremely sick. Let's see around the 18th I guess and dumping sweat into my
blankets for five or six days and various other monumental misadventures
that thankfully are now behind me. I'm excited to be in the gardens today. It's
been quite some time since I've been here. Police helicopters above not
withstanding. I was observing a young man who was apparently totally oblivious
to the incursion signaling of a large male,
Opspeany in Blackfoot, Snow Goose, Canadian Goose in English. He was
approaching the man and was approaching a female and the nearby guardian male
became increasingly irate and began to signal very blatantly obviously in a way
that the young man approaching the female was apparently completely oblivious to.
And what ended up happening was complex. Now I'm not sure about my interpretation
of this, but an interpretation is a lot in such circumstances unless, you know,
unless somehow we have either very accurate intuition or non-ordinary
insight right into what is the male actually doing, right? What's the best
approximation of its behavior that we can form as an explanation? Now of course
these are linguistic behaviors of humans, right, to form explanations of observed
behavior so forth. So that's already a huge problem because it's so removed from
the embodied, the inaction of embodied being on the part of the animals, completely
different realms, right? Explanation embodied behavior. But we must imagine
there can be some crossover. I must, I wish to. So what I saw was something really strange which
I'll just give you my interpretation of it. Eventually the male Goose some 50 feet away
from the male human who's approaching a recumbent female for sure. Well, is that for sure?
Eventually the Goose, which is honking and making displays very loudly, makes a running,
flying pass at the human and the recumbent Goose of at least potentially indeterminate
gender, but given its behavior I think it was female. So the angry Goose makes a low,
flying pass at the pair and appears to be directing its ire in hindsight at the Goose
rather than the human. And I can imagine that it might be extremely unsafe, we'll get you killed
and your mate. To direct anger at the human, Goose is probably aware of this fact. So maybe
it's displacing its ire onto the Goose that's attracting the attention of the human thereby
violating the possibility of present and future safety in the domain. Now admittedly this is
an elaborate attempt at explanation and yet I suspect there's at least some degree of
veracity here. So I've just come from a conversation in which I was mostly spectating
or being talked to, talked at by my friend Dr. Kevin Rue, a neuroscientist and longtime companion
of my mind. Dr. Rue has been an indefatigable enemy of most of what I believe and most of what I
admire and pursue for many years. So he's the kind of a frenemy that I use as a wet stone for my
learning self-correction insight growth and being willing to be talked at sometimes for hours
by Dr. Rue has certainly resulted in me learning all kinds of things particularly about math,
physics, the immune system, neuroscience, hemispheric lateralization, the Greeks,
and amnesis, lots of things. So even though the experience isn't always very kind or inviting,
the results tend to be quite rewarding. And he was opining on the brilliance of Spinoza,
the assertion that there is something resembling a universal, a singular universal intelligence,
i.e. monotheism, and the rejection of rationality, equality, and humanity common to those who worship
fascists, adored Hitler or devotees of Heidegger, particularly who he sees as effectively a Nazi.
And he's very concerned with the efflorescence of anti-science, anti-math, anti-rationality,
absolutist perspectives, single-valued thinking. If we can just destroy science and math,
the gods will return from their catholic hibernations, and we will become messiahs. Very interesting,
incredibly confused perspective. I am visiting my profoundly favored white sage plants,
and the hummingbird sages are greening. Those are going to be gooey in a few months.
What are you going to do, little sparrow?
I'm going to pause for a moment and we'll return shortly. So Dr. Baru has his preferred
perspectives to criticize, denigrate, and point out the trenchant evil.
And these are things such as anti-rationality, fascism, and those who are devoted to various
kinds of religious or perhaps even aesthetic fundamentalism as he sees it. In my own creative
and intellectual development, the surrealists, particularly some of the women, Remedias Varro,
Leonore Carrington, Dorothea Tanning, among many unnamed others, were heroically catalytic,
and in a sense were, you know, I think these women as mind parents. And some of the men as well,
Philippe Sippot, Paul Elward, Jean-Claude Tau, Antonin Artaud, and many others had profound
influences on my own creative questing and sometimes very confused creative and intellectual
adventures. Confused primarily do, I think, to my trenchant naivete about matters sublime,
mystical, and non-ordinary. Or, what is the word that means, redolent of the dreaming?
It's on the tip of my vocabulary, but I can't find it. Oniric. Oh, I got it. Wow. Yeah. My
attempts to return some experience of the Oniric to waking life and particularly creative endeavor and
play, which I see as fundamentally crucial to any hope of deeply embodied human relation and
experience and awareness. So, there's also a word for something one likes to attack, and it
reminds me of like a lure that easily triggers somebody's war mind, so to speak, even if that's
just, even if the primary expression of this is intellectual. And I think of it like a toy
horse of some kind. And I'm reminded of the the word in Hebrew Shibboleth, but I'm afraid that I may
have the meaning wrong. What I remember of this word is my associations with the word in
consciousness and cognition are a kind of a test that enemies can't pass, right? It comes from the
very grave difficulty of non-native speakers to properly pronounce a specific word in Hebrew,
or Aramaic, perhaps. And this may be entirely wrong, as may much of my current thought and talk.
So, I've recently, very long-windedly, come from listening to Kevin attacking
Wittgenstein, one of his favorite targets, and Heidegger, another favorite target,
Jung, another favorite target. And I think he'd be inclined to group all of these people together
under the rubric of Nazi sympathism, you know, sympathism to Nazism. Now myself, I only have the
kind of vaguest, a fairly vague idea of what is actually represented or pointed at when the term
Nazi is used. Obviously, it has very dark and dire connotations, such as bigotry,
hate, extreme entitlement fantasies, the genetic manipulation and or destruction of humans
based on some mystical narrative of inherent, God-chosen supremacy, all of these kinds of
truly disgusting and extremely dire ignorances, pathologies. And I guess one could imagine that
such thought and similar strains of thought that infest the American cognisium presently,
that being the network of the minds of the people that live in this country and the diseases that
they trade among each other, often celebrating them under the guise of either, you can go
either way, right, it can be extreme conservatism on the one hand, and it can be the bizarre left
reification of insanities that arise from extremities of either moral relativism,
meaning nothing has intrinsic truth, it's all just relative to whatever's at play.
Or moral relativism, or bizarre, jingoist acceptance of lethally misfounded principles that,
while raising the flag of some form of ethical advancement or insight, are actually captivated
by one lethal pathology or a cluster of them. And many of these situations and thrips are
endemic to the gardens of what we might refer to as political correctness or identity politics.
This is not to say that there's no seed of virtue in either of those fields, but rather that
the primary function, result, and general outcome of these largely linguistic behaviors,
which I see as pathologically thrisp-structured, meaning communicable linguistic disease.
Shit, now I've really dug myself in the hole here.
Yeah, so not look the hope of, again, like any move we make in language, we've already gone
backward 19 steps from where we want to, you know, from the land we hope to travel to.
So if I say, for example, the quest for equality is noble,
what the one thing that must be absolutely obvious about being human is uniqueness,
yes, we're each human, yes, we mostly fulfill the criteria for the category and so forth,
especially physically.
But the idea of equality is a strangely conflicted ideal because
by the time you have to have arguments about whether humans are equal or not,
you must have already defected from everything that's embodied in relationally true and human
and alive about living as a communal being together for each other and the world, right?
By the time the arguments about equality have arisen or must arise,
the same is true of the problem of human rights.
By the time you have to encode the rights of humans in any way at all,
the whole basis from which those virtues arise has been disposed of summarily.
Just summarily like fucking burnt down.
So it's really ironic because we argue for the existence of virtues like equality.
It truly is a virtue, but once it's made explicit, it's a hopeless situation,
right? Because the virtue has to exist in situ prior to declarations, prior to assertions,
in the actual nature of the relationships that are integral to our moment to moment
experience as beings on earth in this time.
So we are faced with these staggering ironies,
but where I was going was just that there's a
vast, there's a diseased, there's a family of diseased branches on the tree of whatever we
might think of as the left that are, they signal virtue but deliver atrocity and otherizing.
And my goal here actually when I began this talk was to discuss the relationship,
to discuss the overlap, the consilience, the integrative aspects of truth and beauty.
And partly that was because I felt that the activities of the young man in relation to the
geese were a violation of truth and thus also ugly. The man was bemused.
He believed he was having a nature moment and perhaps I am uniquely disposed to find this
really disturbing and maybe even upsetting and angering. But maybe I'm uniquely disposed
towards that sort of critique because thereby I do this all the time. I have done the same thing.
In my recent essay Lady Bird Was Angry With Me, which you can find on
Medium, I talk at length about a situation in which I am doing precisely what that guy, boy,
that young man was doing. Even worse because I'm someone who, you know, I like to think
of myself as someone who's actually capable of paying deep attention to the animals and insects
and plants and the living places and the sky and so forth. So, you know, when it turns out that
I'm doing exactly the opposite of what I believe I am up to and I'm so enamored of my fairy tale
that I'm placing myself and the beings that I love directly in the jaws of death
and having no awareness of this, that might have something to do with why I was so
ready to criticize the young man's behavior.
Now, beauty, these two topics, truth and beauty,
you know, they relate in a way to the conversation I was having or was being subjected to
by Kevin.
You know, recently,
somebody I was close to was asking me questions about the meaning of words and
I don't feel I'm celebrating a kind of moral relativism when I explain to her that
she was asking me how I might interpret a specific word, the word sum, S-O-M-E
in a text communication she had received
and she provided the dictionary definition of sum and I responded that
so she was actually asking me what I felt was meant by the word.
It was clear to me that it did not mean a few, it rather meant all
and I explained that although we might be tempted to apply the dictionary definition
of a single word, we never encounter single words. What we encounter are ensembles of words
within the field of which the meaning of a given word is nuanced and given shading and color and
torque and flavor and you know extra dimensionality
and I said to my friend in text, I wrote to my friend I should say, that we should be careful
of the urge or expectation to validate the concerns of those with whom we are close
rather than actually working to see more clearly together somehow
because what we really want is insight, not validation. I certainly do not wish to have
my ignorance validated. I don't wish to have my blindness celebrated. I don't want to be
rewarded into zombie-like confusion by well-wishing friends who are ready to
act as the sycophants of my dumbest inclinations.
So I was explaining that to my friend that while two of your other friends validated
your concerns here, I think given the actual ensemble of words and its context,
I'm going to push back and say no, no. It didn't mean a few, it meant all in this case.
I could give similar examples in which the word, the use of the word some
actually indicates the entire set, right? Even though that the appearance of the word by itself
would indicate a few, a selection.
For example, one might say,
we went to this restaurant and I got to tell you that was some amazing food.
We don't mean in this case some of the food was amazing.
We mean all of the food that we had was amazing.
But yes, I'm very suspicious of
thrisplike cultural linguistic behaviors that raise the flag of virtue
and deliver atrocity and otherizing.
And I'm also very suspicious of anything that wants to courtroom-like preserve
for the sake of new and further indictments, some historical stupidity and sanity or malignance
of humans. We must find the terrain ahead and go very fervently and passionately together
to those noble and beautiful places in the possibility space of our humanity
that we can together found, find, establish, nurture, and sustain.
There is no time for endless court cases of historical wrong-doing and the prosecution,
and the prosecution, persecution, cancellation, and otherwise misguided criticism.
Misguided because in the urge to indict, we fail to establish something better.
We're so busy attacking something that we've lost the thread of our potential for
transcending it together right now.
I can hear critics in the background saying things such as,
you know, you're a white middle-aged European male, the fuck do you know?
Well, okay, feel free to see me that way, you know, if you're going to collapse the manifold of my
humanity to a series of puppets that you can direct your attacks at easily and seemingly
effectively. If that's the best move you've got, no wonder you're so committed to it.
You know, you're a one-legged centipede there,
but even if I take those criticisms seriously, those categorical racist,
genderist, bigoted criticisms seriously,
what the hell am I supposed to think? What are we supposed to think?
That there are some categories of humans that shall have no voices because of their
purported historical association with pathological malignance, evil,
what the category determines my humanity. If that's true, then everything hopeful
and useful and brilliant about being human is false, because we should recognize racism and
genderism and assaults on privilege and so forth as useful only where they are actually useful and
produce some noble benefit that we can deeply trust, and we should reject them out of hand
wherever they do not, or when they appear as the arbiters of virtue while actually delivering
