like desecration of the nature, opportunity, and origins of our being as humans on earth today.
But I've accidentally wandered into a quagmire again
that wasn't necessarily my intention.
I'm very suspicious of
political, cultural, linguistic movements that
mimic virtue
while having atrocity is most of what they actually deliver, and that atrocity is usually
or often composed by otherizing, by segmenting the population and determining which ones we should
dismiss, attack, destroy, invalidate. That's not virtue, nor does that resemble
the principle, whether we value it or not, the principles that underlie
the nature of what we imagine as democracy, perhaps in its idealized, rather than its
representational forms. I am a devotee of beauty, and in thinking, in cognition, in language,
beauty is an infinite direction. It's one of the directions on the complex compass
on which rationality is another, fanaticism is another.
There's lots of directions on this compass, not for
fundamentalism, religiosity, scientism, scientism being the dogmatic
promulgation of and sustainment of theories that are not preserved due to their veracity,
they are preserved due to being doctrine, they are doctrinally defended,
which is the opposite of what science should be. I heard Stephen Pinker the other day
saying that it's an absolute fact that no one has ever experienced telepathy,
precognition, remote viewing, that all of these things are absolutely false,
and that every single instance of them that was ever occurred in human history was trickery.
And I'm exaggerating only very slightly the vehemence of his position on this,
and quite frankly, it is absolutely bullshit. He's completely wrong.
In fact, without a little telepathy or precognition, we're not going to have minds at all.
Minds are about telepathy and precognition, partly,
and without those ingredients, you don't get minds.
You don't get the minds with which you can refute such things.
Now, I would argue that both telepathy and precognition are concepts in which we may find
a reasonable degree of fakery, you know, chicanery, and so forth.
A little bird, as far as his daughter, I think, or at least his old mate.
The fact that people can counterfeit art
in no way has any effect on the existence of genuine art.
You cannot say, because art can be counterfeited, there are no genuine artifacts.
It's formally untrue. Yet this is the style of thinking we so often encounter
in the common behavior of the masses and the worst common denominators of culture,
humanity, cognition.
You know, I was surprised because Pinker was in conversation with Sadguru,
and I thought that Sadguru would be unlikely to agree
that all telepathy, precognition, channelling, oraclery, and so forth was all just a big bag
of tricks. But Sadguru did agree. For some reason, he found it. I don't, by the way,
believe that that means Sadguru agrees. It only means that in the context at hand,
Sadguru selected agreement as the right move, or useful move, or move he intended to
to tell you, because it's obvious to Sadguru that there's no such thing as a separate mind
in the first place. He does go on to say that. So if there's no such thing as a separate mind,
our minds must be connected with minds in the past, in the future, with the whole field of minds
in all of time, and not be anything like a personal localized possession.
Maybe Sadguru was willing to plant his flag there,
rather than on the relatively shaky ground of, you know, is ESP
the unactual thing. This is that real, which it blatantly obviously is, even if we have the
idea backwards, so that it's our delusion of separate mindedness that produces
the category of the extra sensory, right, the extra, the transhuman, the transpersonal.
It's our first principle mistake of imagining, oh no, our minds are separate. This is Darren's mind,
a possession of Darren's, which is as common as it, a supposition as it is absurd.
I mean, by common, I mean the trenchant fact of my common moment-to-moment thinking right now.
Right? I mean, my direct experience is
redolent of this monumental fiction, this fallacy,
so that even while I decry it, I'm decrying it with a mind that validates it.
Does the irony get any thicker?
You know, Kevin is very concerned about the sacrifice of
facticity,
procedure by proof, logical, rigorous
expressions of human cognition, inactions, right, activities, behaviors in human cognition
in the mind. He wants a deeply rigorous, trenchant, concrete basis for any future movement
and for the possibility of evaluating
trust, virtue, nobility, beauty, all these things, all these properties.
He is an ardent opponent of E. A. McGilchrist, who is one of my heroes, actually.
As I mentioned, Kevin is ardently opposed to much of what I have reverence for.
He doesn't believe, for example, that the complex of
the complex of the fingers of the mind that we would associate with what you get if you shut
off the right hemisphere, as in the WADA test, where you just anesthetize one hemisphere.
He doesn't believe that the complex of fingers, tips that you'd get, want the death or eviction
of the dreaming aspect in mind and so forth, the right hemisphere's
complementary fingertips. But I see that as blatantly obvious that it does want that.
It's dissective. It's very interested in parts. It is all about
utilization and grasping in the sense of reifying as a tool anything it comes into contact with
and rejecting anything that it cannot make such use of, whereas the complementary aspect is
interested in beauty, truth in terms of the nature of being in relation, rather than the nature
of the evaluations of syllogisms in a sequence.
And this is a different mode of truth, though both modes can be beautiful.
But there are certainly forms of truth that so catastrophically transcend provability.
And these are the gardens where insight is conceived and nurtured
and given birth to and fed.
And by insight, I mean that which is almost intrinsically virtuous,
long before any rule-based analysis, like transcendentally virtuous.
And there's a relationship here between truth as a principle
and beauty, rather than truth as an analytic derivative and beauty.
Though again, even in the latter, there's something there in many cases.
It struck me so profoundly when I realized that there are toys of truth that are so profound
and beautiful and actually redolent of insight,
that they completely overwhelm the nature of declarative truth,
or that which can be proven, right, analytic truth. And I would argue that beauty,
or whatever I may mean by this, but I mean a principle that is intrinsic to human awareness,
desire, affinity, and so forth.
So,
that these are, in many ways, two wings on the same bird, truth and beauty.
But what staggered me was when I realized there were, as if stories, right,
look at a situation as if from this, from some perspective,
productive or generative of insight, wonder, awe, understanding, awareness.
There are positions that the truthfulness of the proposed perspective
doesn't matter at all, literally does not matter because what is produced by
inhabiting the perspective, even very briefly, is so profound and so generative of understanding
that the nominal truthfulness or falsity of the perspective
doesn't matter, literally doesn't count, right, we don't count it.
Any perspective that gives you more degrees of liberty than some nominally true perspective would,
we're going to want the liberty, right, we're not gonna, we're gonna be saying like,
nah, I don't want that liberty because it's not true. The perspective isn't truthful.
And I guess in this case what we mean by, you know, what I mean by truthful
is both beautiful and profound in terms of liberation, right, liberating the eye,
EYE, the seeing aspect, liberating the mind, liberating the spirit,
returning liberties that have been previously foreclosed, generously and without any concern for
economics, right, no one's worried about who's going to get paid.
And it seems to me that both truth with the capital T, so to speak, and beauty with a capital B,
these are two wings on the same bird that I trust and know as the spirit, as their spirits in my own,
in those priorities and urgencies of which I am comprised, for which I am comprised,
the purpose of my existence, the living purpose, not the nominal purposes,
the living original true purposes of my being are bound up
with origin, beauty and truth as directions on the compass of being,
and as the very foundation of anything resembling a trustworthy evaluation,
even if we're going to become analytic, right, we're gonna have the same problem.
Hmm, a friend who recognizes me is very valuable.
It's funny, you know, only the male birds will come to my hand.
Doesn't everyone?
Well, peanut is a language that nearly every Corvid speaks.
He asked me if I talked to birds.
And I said, doesn't everyone?
Hmm, so yes, I, you know, in our in our thinking aspect, we may choose what to believe.
Um, evaluatively,
but in our deepest interiority, we do not choose what to believe.
We know, we can sense intrinsically whether something is true or beautiful or good.
And yes, there are layers in the concentric circles where that can be counterfeited and we can be
sold representations instead. And then we lose degrees of liberty.
Each time we accept this counterfeiting, degrees of liberty in our being, in our relationships,
in our cognition, in our intelligence are lost.
Yeah. And this is the fundamental game played by modernity on us, is to replace
the intrinsically true and beautiful and noble origin and nature with
lethally addictive representations and endless new forms of them.
So that we begin to suffocate in a circus of images and tokens of all that we bring to
our human birth complete, that are inviolate
urgencies and foundations of our own being. And these are occluded and we are sold back
ever more. We are sold back copies and images and boxes and so forth
that are ever more degrading, enslaving, addictive, false.
And yet somehow have the seed of the thing counterfeited in them such that we find them
at least conveniently desirable. And this is agonic. I mean this is hell.
My friend the J is with me.
Hmm. A moment and I will return.
You know, I speak of these things. I can see and sense them in myself,
but that does not necessarily mean
that I can accomplish or enact their resurrection preservation. What I can do is recall.
What I can do is remember. What I can do is an amnesis whereby I show the structure of how
the traps were comprised that snared my own heart, that they continue to snare my own body,
my own mind, my own humanity, my own hope of living in the service of beauty and truth
and origin and nature, all of which I deeply trust and not the categories, not the words,
but rather that which the words point toward.
And that was the hope of my speech today, of my talk today, was to remember
the nature of the true and the beautiful, far beyond
systematization, categorics, language, itself, description, explanation, syllogism.
No, the shining light of the origin of our being
in whom our souls take their urgent and most
enriched pleasure of reunion and communion, awakening, insight, adoration, wonder, play, awe,
the true directions on the compass that I love, and that I hope to serve in my human life.
However humbly my service oft becomes,
however humbling my service oft becomes,
there's so much more to learn and understand and become together.
But if we can at least see through the labyrinth of representations of virtue
and representations of beauty and representations of truth, if we can clarify our vision together,
such that we are not thereby deceived, then our hope will flourish and surely produce
the memorial liberations we ache to resurrect together.
Thank you for joining me.
I wish you every true and beautiful way and relation in your life, your heart,
your thought, and your situations.
Bye-bye for now.
