and of understanding what we call understanding which is to translate just tokens into something
meaningful that we can relate with those faculties also seem to me to depend upon something very
similar to dreaming and when we when we use the word imagination what we're referring to
again seems deeply related to the dreaming faculties
now what was it
seems to have something to do with people talking about dreaming or
remembering dreams i'm sure that as soon as i stop making this video
i will recall it it would be great if i could pause
but i don't think we've got that feature i'm gonna check something really quick here i'll be right back
um
Some people have spoken about the idea that our waking experience is actually a kind of
dreaming, a subset of dreaming, that we are trained to do so that we're not seeing what's
actually here. We're dwelling in a kind of group-imposed representation. This model,
I have just cautioned us about models and narratives, this model has been popularized
by the writings of Carlos Castaneda, a spectacular liar who nonetheless communicates information
that can be very useful. That's my perspective on Castaneda's work. So in that view, and
it's a view that I have some resonance with, some harmony with, our waking world experience
is being composed by faculties that could be used for other astonishing things, including
other forms of travel. And this is one of the things that I haven't touched on yet that
I intended to. Some forms of dreaming, remember I've said that there are thousands of faculties
and we're familiar with a very small portion of these. Some forms of dreaming allow us to
experience travel of unusual kinds. And again, travel is too narrow an idea because it's not as
if our physical body necessarily travels to another place and yet it is possible for an aspect of us
to be transported to another place or time or situation, to be with other minds while our body
is unconscious, and perhaps even to take on other forms, non-human forms. So there are a vast
array of possible faculties. Now, some might be inclined to argue, well, you don't really take
on another form, you just have some experience in your mind. But I think those perspectives are
naive. They are materialistically naive. They are naive in the same way that staunch materialism is
naive. Of course, everyone's entitled to their own perspective. I'm not trying to tell anyone
what to think or believe. What I'm trying to do is present us with an array of perspectives
that will empower us to begin the explorations and discoveries that I think will transform
our ideas and capabilities as human beings dramatically and will return to us some of the
incredible diversity of potential experience, opportunity, relation that has so long been
buried under our representational overlays. There are many things that can assist us in
these explorations. Authentic transmission of ceremonies from people whose cultures are
thousands of years older than ours. Deep attention to living places and the relationships in them,
participation in those relationships, meaningful participation.
We're living in a world that has been conceptually stripped of more than 90%
of what's actually accessible and going on here. I'm hoping we could return even 10%
of that to our direct, accessible, volitional experience. That's an achievable goal in my view.
It's achievable in the lifetime of a single human being. Such human beings, particularly if
they're cautious about forming narratives and explanations, can produce astonishing results
in those people they can assist in discovery and learning what they have discovered and learned
in transmission of those skills and faculties. In indigenous cultures there is a tradition
called transfer, and this is a ceremony whereby
once again the language, we don't have the language to encompass it. I'll try. It's a ceremony whereby
non-ordinary relationships and faculties and skills and opportunities and protections
can be shared from a group or a person, an individual, to another group or person.
And these ceremonies are not like those we are used to in the West. They may appear superficially
simplistic. That's the result of the iceberg effect, to put it mildly.
What we will see on the surface is extremely modest compared to what is actually occurring
during one of these ceremonies,
and I feel very grateful to have ever experienced even one in my lifetime.
It is inexplicable, thankfully inexplicable, and it's also the kind of thing that we don't,
there are many aspects of our human experience and even our interiority that not only resist
discussion. They should not be sullied by being spoken of in the face of the awe
and authentic reverence that we may have during such experience. We must remain silent.
They do not belong to culture. They belong to something we have no name for
or that we have names for, but these names are too value laden to be accurate.
There are aspects of our interiority and what we can share together that must properly remain
unverbalized, that we should not make concepts or models or narratives about,
and even that we should not speak of or very much resist the urge to speak of or speak of
only very subtly or refer to only indirectly, and this is part of the mystery of the non-ordinary
aspects of our humanity and our interiority that have been lost, for in our time we seem to think
everything is fodder for vocalization, so I'd just like to caution
that not everything should be spoken of, and I too am still learning about this. This is still new to me,
and I'm so fascinated and excited by the opportunity to speak about these matters
that I may be incautious and speak of things
well and just speak of these kinds of things when
they should not necessarily all be spoken of. I'll take the risk for the moment
while still acknowledging that
some things are too profound and in a sense too holy
to be
subjected to our waking
representational verbal consciousness.
In fact we might benefit from having the opposite happen, we might benefit from having our waking
verbal conceptual consciousness subjected
to that which is beyond its scope, is divine, is ecstatic, is holy, is sacred,
is fundamentally beautiful and true,
and by these words I do not indicate narratives and concepts, but
direct, experienceable relationships.
Thank you for joining me on this exploration, one that I am sure will continue.
It's funny, almost every time I make a video shortly thereafter, five or six or ten or fifteen
things will come into my mind, which I suddenly realize, oh I had forgotten, you know, I should
have spoken about this or that and so on and so forth, so I'm sure we will continue
to explore together and I welcome your questions, comments, thoughts, perspectives, speculations
and the opportunity to explore together.
So just as I expected, shortly after finishing the video I remembered something I wanted to include,
the thing that I had forgotten about, which is that when we are awake
and we speak about dreaming, as I've been doing for an hour and a half now,
what I refer to as our dreaming mind and I think of it as
a number of other selves, not just as a secondary self, but as a number of other
aspects of who I am, who I can be, my identity. The dreaming aspects of our consciousness,
when we speak of them, they listen, they wake up
and when we do the things that invoke them, they pay attention, they get very excited
because I think our dreaming mind is really fascinated by what happens across the gap
in the world of waking, where when it comes to that transformation, essentially
it undergoes something like death. So I think our dreaming mind is extremely curious about
in the same way our waking mind is curious about what happens across the gap of dreaming,
our dreaming mind is fascinated and deeply curious about why do I collapse every morning,
why do I disappear every morning, what do I disappear into, who's that guy who takes over
and runs the ship on the other side or who's that gal, however we want to think about it,
who takes over, like what is that thing that causes me to be evicted from the vehicle
and of course these are analogies, but the dreaming mind has its own
kinds of memory and curiosity and passion and desire and it pays attention when we're paying
attention to it, particularly in the waking world. It's as if these other aspects of myself
can hear me and they awaken and become very attentive when we speak, particularly when we
speak with reverence and respect and curiosity and wonder about the world of dreaming. So one
of the ways that we can bridge that gap between these two worlds and it's a very sophisticated
array of differences and gaps is by speaking meaningfully about it together. In many
ancient cultures, the morning time was often spent sharing dreams
and some people today still have this habit which I think is wonderful, although many people find
nothing more, they find it extremely tedious and do not want to hear about other people's dreams
at all. Sharing about dreams, sharing dreams, speaking about dreams, exploring dreaming together
while we're awake, is one of the profound ways that we can catalyze the processes of
awakening and discovery that I've been speaking about and as I've said, the dreaming mind listens
when we speak about it while we're awake. It also pays attention when we pay attention, right?
If we record, if we do what we call recording our dreams, which really is recording the skeletal
remains of a dream, the plot, then the dreaming mind notices that we're doing that when we're awake
and if we practice remembering our dreams, we will improve the faculties involved in dream memory
and these things are very important to be aware of. It is as if there are other
selves that exist only when we are dreaming and they want to understand, they want to know
what is the other world that lies across that gap and why do I disappear when the morning comes?
What happens to me? What happens to the mind that I was dwelling as, right?
So in the same way, our waking consciousness disappears and then transforms into dreaming.
When we awaken, our dreaming consciousness tends to disappear and then transform into
into the waking version, the waking shape and it's very curious about this other world
over here in which we think, in which identities are dependable, continuous, contiguous,
in which locations don't transform, in which aspects of identity are lost or flattened, explained.
So this is something that's very important to understand. The dreaming mind is curious about
the waking world in a way not dissimilar to how our waking mind can become very curious about
the dreaming world and it listens when we speak about it as if there's only one it,
there may be they, maybe they listen when we speak about them, these aspects of consciousness
and they are sensitive to our reverence, our curiosity, our passion.
And if we honor them, they pay attention. If we pretend they are of no account, they pay attention.
And also we can speak to our dreaming mind from our waking consciousness in a number of ways.
One of those I've been demonstrating by just talking about dreaming now while I'm awake,
but when we lie down to go to sleep or to take a nap or whatever we're doing or to have a visionary
moment, we can speak to our dreaming mind within our body and there are many different ways of
doing this and some of them might be non-verbal. We might draw pictures about while thinking of
what we desire, we might draw pictures while we're awake or we might dance or we might sing,
but we can also speak and if we are to speak to the dreaming mind, it's been my experience
that what works best at least for me is to move my consciousness, the felt sense of its
location to move that down from my head deep into my belly.
Deep, deep, not just into the root of the belly, but deep inside and to speak
from that place in the belly. I believe that our internal organs are deeply involved in dreaming.
It's not merely a phenomenon that's happening in the brain. Blood flow is changing or organ
function is changing, metabolism is changing throughout the body and for some reason my
dreaming mind seems to be especially responsive if I speak with it from deep within my belly.
These are a couple of things that I wanted to add to the video this afternoon. I'm sure other
things will occur to me once I'm finished here, but I'm just grateful to be able to include them
in the video today and I'm not sure how I'm going to plug this in. Maybe I'll append it at the end
and that's the most likely thing. So once again thank you for joining me and I hope your dreams
open up and flower and are astonishing and rich and beautiful and evocative and transformative
and educational just as the nature of dreaming itself always is. Thank you.
