These include hypnopompic and hypnagogic phenomenon. Excuse me, got that backwards.
I'll go from waking to sleep and sleep to waking. So hypnagogic and hypnopompic phenomenon.
What we refer to as lucid dreaming, which is the usually relatively gentle intrusion of aspects
of waking consciousness into what I'll call the dreaming manifold or the dream experience.
And lucid dreaming is a way that our waking consciousness can participate somewhat
directly in dreaming experience without causing it to collapse into waking.
Most of the time, when we begin to have some concern with our waking mind in a dream,
for many of us anyway, what happens is we awaken. The intrusion of waking concerns or questions
about even the history of a specific dreaming experience, like how did I come to be
in a room that is not my room and yet is my room, right? Or why does this person
who looks nothing like my sister, why is that person actually my sister? And I know her to be
my sister or even him to be my sister, even though it doesn't look like my sister, right?
We can have experiences of identity and dreaming that are radically different from those we are
accustomed to in our waking minds. And the dreaming mind sees in general little conflict,
little or no conflict. It might notice that something's a little unusual, right? If my sister
is a boy in my dream. But it won't collapse by itself. The waking mind's concerns have to enter
into the situation for it to be, for there to be the collapse. As I understand it, for the dream
to collapse toward waking, the waking mind's concerns and intelligences have to intrude upon
the dreaming situation. I think it would be really amazing if we could do the opposite thing, if we
could experience lucid waking or trans lucid waking, which would be the subtle intrusion of
dreaming phenomenon into our waking consciousness without collapsing it into a dream. That would
be really something. And this is part of what I think people are after when they're using psychedelic
drugs. And that may be one of the ways to have something that at least resembles
that experience. But I think it's problematic in a variety of ways. There is a resemblance,
but there is not an equivalence. We don't use drugs and need no drugs to experience lucid dreaming.
And there is no drug you can take that I'm aware of, though there are a few that have been suggested.
I know a couple of them. It's been so long since I've thought about this topic that I may not be
able to name them at the moment. But there are a couple of herbs. One produces a very bitter tea
that at least are reputed to facilitate lucid dreaming. So again, hypnagogic phenomenon, dreaming
itself, hypnopompic phenomenon, lucid dreaming, and what? Let's see. Oh, then we have what is
referred to as astral travel or OBEs, out of body experiences. Now, it should be
clear that the phrase lucid dreaming encompasses a range of phenomenon.
And so too, the phrase astral travel, these encompass a range of phenomenon. One of the
peculiar, I guess it would be difficult to say whether this is an aspect of dreaming or of
trained imagination. But the phenomenon referred to as remote viewing, a phenomenon many people
would be skeptical of, but I am not particularly skeptical about because I both experienced it
and experienced it being done. This is a radical transformation. This is one of the waking faculties
that I'm claiming are available to us that we would not ordinarily have experience of.
And again, I think there are thousands of these. So in English, we have waking, dreaming, hypnagogia,
hypnopompia, astral travel, lucid dreaming, and then maybe a few other words like visions.
And again, the phrases astral travel, lucid dreaming, and visions, the word visions,
these refer to a broad range of phenomenon, not simply one. And so too does the word dreaming.
So that there are many different forms of dreaming, many flavors, many kinds,
but in English, we do not really have, we've not made many distinctions.
We pretty much just have dreams and nightmares, lucid dreams, astral travel.
Perhaps we might include precognitive dreams. Again, something some people are skeptical about,
but that I have good reason to believe actually happens to people. In fact, there was an example of
it yesterday where a man had a dream about his friend in which his friend was very frightened by
a dog that had bit his friend in childhood when they were in real life. And he had a dream that
he was again with his friend as an adult and this dog came and the man was very frightened of the dog
and he had this dream and the next day the man in that dream was found to be dead in his house.
Now that's not a direct precognitive dream. The dreamer did not dream that the man died
the next day and would be found in his house, but he had a dream that something was badly wrong
and that the man was very frightened and the dream stuck out in his consciousness and he remembered it.
So I very much believe that dreaming connects us to a non-ordinary cognizium,
a network of minds and not all of those minds are human.
We might have difficulty understanding or believing in the existence of non-human
minds and by this I mean particularly minds that are not embodied as organisms.
I don't think we have too much trouble believing for example that a cat or a dog has something
resembling a mind and even a personality. I found this to be much more prevalent in my own experience
of living things and beings and living places than regular quote-unquote people would imagine
so that to me plants and even insects demonstrate aspects that resemble mindedness
and or personality particularly certain kinds of insects.
Well it's much more recognizable in certain kinds it's much easier for humans to recognize
in certain kinds of animals and insects than it is in others and that's because we associate
certain qualities with mindedness and many of those are suggested to us by our language
so that it is easier for us to perceive something analogous to mindedness or consciousness,
character, personality in animals like cats or dogs or chimps or gorillas or dolphins
than it is for example in bees or house flies or ants. But as someone who has spent a great
deal of time with insects I assure you that it is at least true to my own experience that each
insect is an individual organism in the sense that it has unique characteristics local to that
organism that are expressions of its unique biology history experience perhaps analogs of
emotion and so on and so forth. One can see house flies contesting over terrain very violently
and just as other animals do after the contest they preen right and that's not merely
you know here we come to the idea of instinct which is a hugely problematical nightmare
but it's not merely instinctual each animal preens somewhat differently and for different
purposes and with slightly different outcomes. So I've birdwalked somewhat here but what I
want to suggest is that there are cognizia networks of minds and that different organisms
compose cognizia together and they also compose social cognizia such as a beehive or the city
of san francisco or the state of california or the united states or the northwest hemisphere
or the world there is a human cognizium there is a cognizium of bears um there is the cognizium
of dogs and these are cuts in the universal network of minds in the metacognizium that all
beings probably in all of time and space compose or comprise together it's going to be a little
noisy here for a moment so I'm walking next to the street and the cognizium of drivers is different
from the cognizium of people who are walking right we can make all kinds of different distinctions
but what I want to suggest is that um dreaming one of the things that's going on in dreaming
is that we are connecting with um transmitting to that is to inform or in structure and receiving
from that is to become informed or unstructured uh the cognizia of other beings and possibly
not just other beings but in other dimensions of time and or space in other places
and some of those beings are transhuman there are intelligences that are vastly more significant to
ours vastly superior to ours there are intelligences that we might ordinarily think of as supernatural
although that's a little bit confused since nature is a uniform right it refers to all that is
and for something to be supernatural it would have to be beyond that which is
it could be supernatural in the sense that it transcends locality right and most of our experiences
of nature are localized at least in time we think of the past is inaccessible and the future is
inaccessible but I believe that's not the fact of our cognition or our humanity I think it's
actually more a fact of our habituated perspective in time and the reason I think that is again I've
had experience of non-local temporal awareness so it seems to me that human minds particularly when
aided by an outside satellite can escape many of the boundaries that we would ordinarily associate
with what is knowable by a human being that we would ordinarily believe to delineate what is
knowable by a human being now lots of other things are going on in dreaming um the swarm
is getting dried out and that's not good let's see if I can somehow be of assistance
with this animal so you know I've just had contact with a non-human organism physical contact I've
acquired some of its commensal bacteria on my fingers and it's acquired some of mine
hopefully that will have a good outcome for the animal that I was attempting to assist
that's not always guaranteed humans are missing crucial domains of awareness when we interact with
living communities or organisms and what seems you know good to us can be absolutely catastrophic
organisms this is a very painful thing that I discovered in my childhood because I was too naive
my ideas of what constituted the good for me and some organism were often catastrophically
misfounded in sort of fairy tales and it doesn't necessarily help to have science
um a good example is that the department of fish and game was contacted at some point to
license an indigenous group to hunt buffalo a traditional symbiotic relationship
um
and the scientists in the department of fish and game told the indigenous hunters
they would grant the lysis but they had to hunt only the oldest bulls
the herds from which those bulls were hunted died and the reason they died is that the oldest
bulls are the ones that cut through the snow and ice for the herd when conditions become very harsh
and so the fish and game people were thinking what they you know what they imagined to be
rational thoughts the oldest bulls can't reproduce anymore they're essentially disposable they also
aren't very good at protecting the herd but that's not really true so rationality can be
misfounded and we can have the wrong idea about what constitutes goodness in a relationship with
organisms primarily because our our conceptual awareness is insufficient to encompass the actual
situation or relationship yeah and perhaps with our dreaming mind we might have better luck if our
dreaming mind were somehow involved um at least if the number if the
if the scope of our relational and organizational awareness were expanded
and perhaps our conceptual awareness slightly reduced so that it wouldn't
dominate that organizational awareness we might be able to make better choices
in understanding how humans can relate with living beings and places in a way that is healthy
and mutually beneficial and perhaps for us cognitively beneficial because it would nourish
aspects and faculties of waking consciousness that we are either
deprived of or we have broken versions of them
I've had a wide variety of dreaming experience but that's not by any stretch of the imagination to
claim that I've glimpsed the scope of the possibilities I haven't
I simply have had a variety of staggeringly surprising experiences and have spoken with
others who've had experiences as well um that early on convinced me that what what we are taught
to think about dreaming is not true um and is far too narrow to be useful I had non-ordinary
experiences as a child my mom would say oh you were just dreaming I would try to explain to her no mom
this wasn't a dream um she was concerned that if I became too fascinated by these experiences and
phenomenon that I might go mad she was concerned for my sanity apparently she was aware that madness
was a factor in our family history um and she herself would undergo
through her life later
uh
profound and disruptive experiences of non-ordinary cognition
that definitely did not seem to be
healthy right it wasn't as though she was drawing new insights and intelligence from these
experiences rather she was what we would usually call delusional
and this factor is uh relevant in my family tree although the forces the same
the same catalysts that emerge as madness in one mind can conceivably emerge as prodigy
in another mind a mind capable of managing the
staggeringly profound momentum of non-ordinary cognition and non-ordinary cognitive phenomenon
such as those that result in mania bipolar disorder schizophrenia
borderline personality disorder autism etc the things that we think of as mental illness or
in newer language neurodiversity so I am I am suggesting that under some circumstances
the same catalysts that would produce psychosis in one individual might produce prodigy in another
and I suggest this based upon direct experience
of something that bordered on psychosis but I was able to manage
and produce otherwise unimaginable insight from over a long period of time
this too is related to dreaming schizophrenia mania autism uh
all of these things the the nature of consciousness
its under structure is deeply and profoundly related to dreaming oh that's interesting
just do not proceed beyond this point
danger no it doesn't say what of what is the danger
so here's a sign
and someone has broken off
the part that says oh I see oh I see what it is okay the danger is um
the branches of these trees often break and fall
so they don't want people to proceed beyond this little this little barrier
you know we've been told that's like what my mom was saying when she was telling me as a child
when I'd had for example an out of body experience that I was only dreaming
or when I had a really profound hypnagogic hallucination that it was just a dream
it wasn't just a dream and I was not merely dreaming and the idea that dreaming is a mere
phenomenon is the kind of absurd and backwards perspective we would we get from
the the isolated eye the relatively isolated island of waking consciousness as we ordinarily
experience it now it is apparent that some people have very likely discovered some of the faculties
which that that we moderns have no experience or idea of and by the way it once once we realize
that we're aware of a very only a very limited array of the faculties natural to our waking
consciousness or accessible to our waking consciousness once we become aware of that
and I want to caution people against using drugs for this exploration there's a wide number of reasons
why I would make that caution but once we once we become aware of that we become capable of
trailblazing we become capable of forging new terrain and not merely for ourselves
but for what but terrain that can be shared with others we can discover new faculties
that we can teach others how to discover we can blaze trails that others can later follow
and expand on we can recover to our waking experience faculties of intelligence and
consciousness sensitivities senses that have for thousands of years lain dormant in our people
and it is my hope that we will do this together and it's my hope that my own work may inspire
this kind of exploration the reason that I will caution against drugs is is a similar reason
that I would caution against using drugs to facilitate the acquisition of dreaming faculties
drugs interfere with our metabolism dramatically and they can damage or suggest faculties that
don't exist they can produce simulations of experience that are neither realistic coherent
nor useful although I've heard thousands of people claim you know that psychedelics is the
doorway to awakening and enlightenment and so on and so forth I've seen no nearly no examples of
that I'm not saying there aren't any I'm saying of the thousands of people that I've seen you know
raving about the powers of psychedelics not one of them has brought to me any specifically
communicable insight that is useful and transmissible in weight in there in the you know in our waking
world consciousness and so I again I'm not saying that there are no instances of that phenomenon
of the acquisition of useful intelligence or transmissible insight only that it's unimaginably
rare compared to the wild claims of you know awakening which I just not seeing the evidence of
that I've also seen many minds irreparably damaged or destroyed by exposure to drugs
and the simple fact is we don't need them right our consciousness is capable of changing its shape
so to speak it's the the the analogy of shape and when that shape changes our perceptions change
