Hello everybody, I am again in the San Francisco Botanical Gardens, my favorite place to make
videos. Unfortunately, it means that, at least for part of my time here, I'm going to be holding
an electronic device in my hand and paying attention to both that and thoughts
while I'm walking in the gardens.
I've just finished cleaning some spider webs away from the opening to the beehive in
the Great Entrance Cypress Tree.
Glad to see that hive is active again and there are a number of spiders that take advantage of
the fact that the hive is active and also that it's not particularly well populated.
I had to find some bamboo and break a branch of bamboo, not from a branch that had already fallen.
In order to make up broom, with which to sweep away some of the spider webs surrounding
the hive's entrance.
And it's not that I think the spiders shouldn't have access to the bees.
Spiders and bees have been contending with one another for a very long time.
And in fact, other members of the Hymenopter family, particularly wasps, are very adept at
hunting spiders. However, the bees are neither adept at hunting them nor at defending themselves
from them. I have just accidentally located a spot where none of these things may seem
relevant, but to the topic I'm going to pursue, which is actually going to be an extension
of my recent video on dreaming. I've also just located a spot and this is a little confusing,
but it looks like, let's see here, let's see if I can show you this, it looks like that branch
right there of this tree.
Is one of the preferred places that a relatively large raptor
has been using at some point in the not too distant past.
Either as a perch or for digestive purposes. It's conceivable there's a nest up there,
but the reason that I'm, that I know that is because of this.
I can't see what the camera is seeing right now, so I'm just going to move it back and
look at the remains of that
object we ordinarily refer to as an owl pellet or a raptor pellet, and these are the remains of
very large, this one's well decomposed, but these are the remains of very large pellets.
So I suspect, sorry for the shaking there, it's brushing something off the camera,
I suspect there's a relatively large raptor nearby,
and I'm just going to look around briefly for other pellets, but those two are pretty big, so
there's a nice kind of lemony scent near here, not sure what's producing it.
Many of the best pellets, if one is trying to collect them, which very few people do,
are often hidden in the grass or brush at the base of these trees,
so it's difficult to find a large intact pellet. One has to find it fairly
fresh, otherwise they tend to fall apart as they get watered and sprinkled on and so on.
So today I'm going to be talking much more deeply about what we call dreaming,
and one of the problems here is that our nomenclature is very deceptive.
When we make words, we use them in a sense, and of course once I'm talking about the complexities
of language in language, I'm really in trouble, but I'm going to attempt to mitigate the difficulties
as best as I can, as skillfully as I can. So when we make a word,
if we imagine the sum total of possible experiences, or of things that can be experienced,
words are delineations of that manifold. In other words,
a manifold, this word can be used in various ways, but I am thinking of a bubble made of many bubbles,
such that it forms a super bubble, and at the top of human reference chains
is what we, is what I would call a uniform, a single term that refers to all things,
and one of the common unifors is reality, which we would imagine
can refer to all possible phenomena, including cognitive phenomena, even though we might differentiate
things we think from things which exist, and yet thoughts exist. So thoughts are within the realm
of everything. Everything is another common unifor, and the universe is another common unifor.
These refer to the uppermost level token in the tree of tokens that our languages comprise,
and as you go down that tree what you find are delineations, places where we've made cuts,
and we've done that on purpose, and the cuts are not themselves explicit. In other words,
only someone who wanted to would differentiate a tree from the land, or this place,
right, or a stone, or a pool, or the beehive, or the spider. So we make these cuts, and in each
language the cuts have resemblances to one another, but have differences in what they denote,
what they explicitly point at, and what they connote, what their associations are.
So in the game of language we have tokens, trees of tokens, right, what I would say we have
unifors, then we have holophores, which are very important distinctions such as the world, the sun,
food, mother, a friend, dreaming, consciousness, our hand, an eye, animal, plant. These are elements
that we need to have tokens for and understand something about them in order to understand
anything else, because holophores, how should I put it, invest their properties
in subtokens, so that if you think, for example, that the universe is the quote-unquote creation,
or the natural result or expression of a divine being or universe, then all things inherit that
property, right? So everything inherits the properties that we associate with the uniform. If we think
that the universe is a mechanically, you know, it's an accident of uninhabited mechanics,
then everything acquires that property. In other words, nothing is not uninhabited mechanics,
because the universe has that quality. And similarly, to understand what an animal is,
or a plant, or an organism, we generally will know something about what the everything is,
and that everything may be the holophore of the world, right, what the world is, what is the
world. It's a planet in space, this is terrestrial life, these are terrestrial life forms, and so on,
so forth. They inherit the properties that we associate with the planet, but there's all kinds
of holophores. We need to know, for example, maybe two of the most fundamental holophores, and some of
them are bipolar or multipolar like this, are separate and unified, right? Because in order to
have the idea of any distinct thing that has been delineated, we must have some idea or sense of what
it means to be separate, to be distinct. And so perhaps unity and separation are the fundamental,
maybe the most fundamental bipolar holophores. And there isn't an explicit list of holophores,
nor do I really think there should be. I can name a variety of them, 12 to 15,
at will. I'll probably name a different list every time, but it'll contain some
similar elements that I've used in other lists. And the term holophore is a neologism, a new word,
that I invented when I was thinking very deeply about the structure of human relationships with
language. And by the way, I am what might be called a warfian, although I wouldn't use that description
normally, in that I believe at least that our relationships with language transform
our expectations and our experiences of being human, of seeing, of relating with, of understanding,
of noticing. So with a different lexicon, we will notice different things. With different
connotations, those things will have different meanings. With different denotations, they will
obviously have different identities in consciousness and equivalencies, right? They will be like or
unlike, well equivalency might be the wrong word, resemblances, they will be like or unlike other
things. It's said that the hard, the hard, the strong version of the warf hypothesis has been
completely refuted or defeated. Whether or not that is actually true, I still
am certain that our relation, at least our relationships with language, how we use it,
how we understand its own anatomy and function and potentials, deeply affect our experiences,
understandings, noticings, the way we make analogies or resemblances or metaphors,
and so the very nature of our representational cognition. And part of why that's important
and why I'm using this as a preface is that I'm talking about dreaming. And this word dream
is used in English primarily to refer to
what I will actually call an experience of non-ordinary cognition. Because I'll refer to
waking consciousness as ordinary cognition for the moment, even though I may choose to invert
that polarity later and say that it's actually the dreaming consciousness that has precedence and
that waking consciousness is a subset of dreaming. It's a specific, how shall I put this?
It's a specifically structured sub-aspect of what would otherwise be dreaming consciousness.
And I think it's an aspect we learn to sustain as we mature from childhood
to produce what is generally understood by adults primarily as waking consciousness,
because children have a very different experience of waking consciousness than adults do.
And this is evidenced by their absolute fascination with play and even with what we call toys.
So we have these delineations in language, in English. We have being awake,
as we may suppose I am now. We have being asleep. And then we can say, I can say,
the waking mind to refer to the common properties that are familiar to me, and there are many
available properties that are not familiar to me. In fact, we might say most of the available
properties of the waking mind are not familiar to me. I have managed to become acquainted with a
very small subset of those properties or faculties is a better word. Yes, I like that word much better.
So there's an incredible array of faculties that are available to us
within waking consciousness. Most of us will have an incredibly modest exposure to those faculties,
and that exposure will be delineated partly by language, partly by culture, partly by heritage,
partly by experience, so on and so forth. I'm going to pause briefly while people pass me.
So I want you to imagine thousands of faculties that are available to waking consciousness
and to realize that we are likely to become familiar with only a very small fraction of those,
and that's primarily because of what we're told to expect and what is modeled to us
by adults and authorities, scientists, theorists, religious authorities, so on and so forth.
But I know for certain that there are essentially an unlimited number of faculties available to
the waking mind, and I know for certain that for most of us, the reason I know this is I've had
some brief experience of something else. I've had brief experience of that very narrow window
of waking consciousness faculties suddenly widening dramatically beyond anything I ever imagined
possible, and that experience is still somewhat inexplicable to me, though I could compare it
with various ideas such as direct contact with a non-human intelligence.
That's the one I prefer because that's the one that most resembles the experiences that I had
and still occasionally have, but usually to a much more modest degree.
So there's a vast array of faculties available to waking consciousness, and most of us are going to
have a very limited exposure to those faculties. Similarly, there are a vast array, perhaps an
infinite array of faculties available and normal to our dreaming consciousness, and again,
most of us are going to have a very limited exposure to those faculties, experience of them,
knowledge of them, firsthand or even theoretical. So in common English, we have a few terms that
relate to dreaming consciousness. We have the ordinary dream. We have hypnagogic experience,
which is experiences often involving what we call hallucinations that occur between being awake
and falling asleep. We have the post-hypnagogic dreaming, which is the first, the dreams that
we have before we enter deep sleep, and then we have the pre-hypnopompic dreaming, the dreams we
have before transiting from sleep to wakefulness. We have hypnopompic experience, which is the
experience in between. Ordinarily, we don't have a lot of hypnagogic or hypnopompic experiences,
but the betweens from waking to sleep and sleep to waking,
these are sort of bridge domains in which extremely unusual phenomenon can occur
that are often seem very bizarre, are hallucinogenic,
perhaps are psychogenic, and so forth. And by the way, psychogenic means psyche generating,
and sygenic is a word I use to mean mind-making, but there's another, I think there's an actual
term for generating states of consciousness. Now, of course, these are the cuts we have made,
and people who made different cuts will have wildly different ideas, and because they'll
have different ideas, they will notice, be curious about, perceive, pursue, reject, embrace phenomenon.
So language makes a difference. There's no way around it, it has to,
because associated with language are meanings and values and evaluations, so that
for a given sociocultural people, certain phenomenon will be sought after and desired,
other phenomenon will be fled from, repressed, seen as undesirable,
and this will often have to do with a value system that underlies the languages and is associated
with the tokens, the delineations, the cuts in the manifold of all that is,
that have been made by those people, and all those cuts are made for purposes,
so the language matters, it turns out, whether or not we can prove or disprove
Worf's hypothesis, or the Sapier-Worf hypothesis set, or the strong or weak versions, that's irrelevant.
Well, it's not irrelevant, but it doesn't answer the question, right?
And the fact that I'm just stating this, I'm just asserting that the language matters,
doesn't make it true. Obviously, you'll have to, just like we all do, you'll have to decide for
yourself, hopefully through experiment and exploration, whether what I'm saying here makes
sense, and is accessible to your own direct experience of cognition. Certainly, if I call
this a tree, this guy, this gal, this being, this possibly non-gendered thing,
and by the way, all the controversy around gendered pronouns is related to the fact that
language matters. In that particular domain, which I'm not going to dwell on or deeply delve into,
it appears that some segment of our population has become extremely concerned with
the denotations and connotations of gender pronouns, and that's because they feel
well. I can't say exactly why that is, actually. It's very complex this story, and it's not an
easy thing to delineate. It's not an easy thing to draw a circle around and resolve.
There's a woodpecker up here.
Now, if I call that a woodpecker, that has certain associations and connotations. It doesn't really
matter a lot if I just change it to a nonsense word like a nobafred. Because that term has no,
it doesn't belong to a language. It doesn't acquire the meaning elements that are inside phonemes
or even single letters or sounds, because sounds themselves are meaningful to human beings.
The sounds made by our letters are very meaningful, and the vocal sounds we make
have a kind of visceral sensibility to us. It matters if the sounds are different, but it
doesn't help me to simply change the word tree into a nonsense word, because that word will
stand alone. It'll be almost a kind of super neologism, right? A word that,
although in making neologisms, we will tend to incorporate aspects of our native language
unless we're trying to invent a word in one of our non-native languages, presuming we have some.
And a speaker who knows many languages is really living in a different world of identity
than someone who only knows one, because a speaker who knows more than one language can
triangulate on identity from multiple positions in a linguistic structure, whereas somebody who
knows only a single language is trapped with that single structure. And you might think, well,
what does all this have to do with dreaming? And that's a very reasonable thing to think,
because I'm thinking it right now. But it has a lot to do with dreaming if the waking mind and
our representational faculties were forged and informed by experiences of dreaming. And for me,
that relationship seems very, very likely. Even if they were not only forged by our experiences
of dreaming, they were deeply influenced by them. The linguistic emerges from the non-linguistic,
from the pre-linguistic, in my view, and is deeply related to that which cannot be spoken.
But the reason that I'm concerned with these cuts that we make to produce tokens like waking
and dreaming and consciousness is because I want to draw into question the scope of dreaming.
And the way that I want to draw into question is by
suggesting that the scope is very broad and actually encompasses waking consciousness,
though most of us will remain unaware of that during our lifetimes, primarily because the models
that we have of waking consciousness explicitly exclude dreaming. And the experiences that we
have of waking consciousness seem to be not like dreaming. And what waking consciousness can ordinarily
conserve from our dreaming experience is a very modest segment at best, or very modest produce.
Essentially, most of us can only conserve a plot. And a plot is a kind of this happened,
then that happened, then this happened. Linear structure that is easily communicated in language
and yet does not communicate most of what actually is going on in dreaming experience.
So we have in English a variety of things we can talk about commonly in dreaming.
