Hello everybody, welcome.
I'm watching a small
memorization of birds,
form, shapes,
or rather something more like manifolds
in the sky.
And they come together
in clumps
and they disperse
into flocks and
there's a living flow there.
I want to talk today
about
some of the things that are disappearing from our lives.
Many of us are aware
that
the rapid and accelerating advance
of computational technology
has created
systems
driven by the purposes
of corporations and governments
primarily.
And these processes that run
in the network of human minds
that I call the cognisium
comprise features
that I refer to as thrips.
And thrips are
what can be thought of,
it's very difficult to say
what precisely a thrips is,
but they resemble
ideas
and structured hierarchical processes.
So
the idea that there's a network of minds
is a thrips.
Normally we believe
that our minds are separately encapsulated
by our bodies as if they are a possession.
And while there's a way in which this is true
or there are some ways
in which this is true
there are more fundamental layers
and at the most fundamental layer
it's my perspective
that all minds in all of time
comprise a network
that freely communicates
beneath the surface of our conscious awareness
most of the time.
For some of us
particularly those who experience
enlightenment
there may be some direct contact
with this family of minds.
In the layers that our modern consciousness
is ordinarily aware of
and participating in
most of the content
is toxic, domineering,
very parasitic,
highly aggressive,
extremely contagious
and those features
of the family of thrips
are accentuated
and exaggerated and hyperbolized
by the technologies
presently in use by humans.
The problem is about to become
vastly more significant
and overwhelming.
So as I was beginning to say
many of us are aware that
the analytics
produced by our interactions with machines
are being captured
by governments and corporations
and while there are some processes
that run
the representational layer
of human collective behavior
that are at least modestly altruistic
the vast majority
are not.
They are lethal
and they are lethal not just to living beings
which of course they are certainly lethal too
but to the possibility
of having a mind
whose degrees of freedom
increase over time and whose capacity for insight,
creativity, altruism, awareness
expand dramatically
not just merely over time
but especially when we come together
with the purpose of doing so.
So there's a fundamental layer
that is trustworthy
but in the representational layer
thrips, holds sway
and dominate the network
and it's as if there's something like demons
because they ceaselessly colonize
and assemble new forms of colonization
and modes and depths
and repercussions
and a process that would be terrifying to visualize.
So the representational layer
is a bit like the dead structured
mispurposed simulation
of the cognisium
the living network of all minds
and the humans keep producing these representations
as they depart further and further from contact
and embodiment
of the natures and purposes
that live in the cognisium
and this process
causes extremely rapid evolution of thrips.
Now it turns out that
there's a fundamental principle here
that is crucial to pay very deep and careful attention to
and it's the principle of privacy.
Humans, because we are pod animals
express both the nature of the cognisia
that the human cognisium
derives its character from
and our most sacredly held
and experienced hopes, dreams and principles
arise from that relationship.
And these hopes, dreams and principles
that we are born with a unique personal library of
are co-opted, hidden, inhibited, converted.
We're incentivized to throw them away for
things that vaguely represent some of their features
in a kind of addictive way
that caters to the least
virtuous and trustworthy aspects of our humanity.
So we all undergo this process
of losing contact with the cognisium
and gaining an ever deeper vulnerability
to the representations that replace it.
And this process is furiously driven by modern technology
to new lows.
Because we are social creatures
we have sort of as an imperative within us
and each human being is incredibly unique
even though they all fulfill the sort of cheat sheet
of being human, right, having a human body and so on.
Each person is incredibly unique
and part of the beauty of that
is that it creates opportunities for synergy, right,
for two or three people together
to exponentially exceed what a single person is likely
to be capable of seeing, being and doing.
We tend to prosper best in small, tightly knit, highly intimate groups.
However, the landscape of humanity is very complex.
It's a topology and there are individuals who, for example,
can easily outperform vast populations of disoriented humans.
But even those humans, the highly individualistic ones,
rely on the representational cognisium
and their contact with the original cognisium
to achieve the astonishing results that they're capable of, their prodigy,
whether these are singers or mathematicians or surgeons or biologists
or authors, myself, you.
We all rely on both, right, we're connected both to the original cognisium fundamentally
and to the layered representations that swarm in the human populations.
But because we are social animals, all of us crave not merely attention from other humans
but something I'm going to call positive observation.
And you can see this exemplified in representations such as football games or other games.
We are extremely aware of animals, not merely of how we are actually being observed.
We simulate observers in our conscience, in thought, in our concerns,
in our predictive behavior, in our vigilant sentinels.
We simulate possible observers and for some people this is catastrophic
because it overwhelms their consciousness.
Endless simulations of possible or probable negative observation, judgmental observation.
Trouble all of us, well, most of us very deeply.
Again, it's a topology, right, there's mountains and valleys.
And the humans in the mountains and valleys aren't static, they're constantly transforming
and responding to new inputs and creating new outputs and so forth.
But you can see social media as an example of the inherent desire for positive observation
and the capacities of the processes and thrips that are running in the representational simulation of the cognisium.
Incentivize this heavily so that you have bizarre situations where relatively ordinary people
can suddenly be raised to the status of a superstar and then maintain and profit from that status over time
simply by taking pictures of themselves.
Pictures being representations, right, flat, digital representations.
Now it turns out that we're so sensitive to observation that the feelings that arise
if we are concerned that we are being observed transform our consciousness.
Whether we are concerned with positive observation or negative observation
both have a radical effect on who we are capable of being alone and together.
And when the problems that we now face become common, there's actually strong incentives to be phony.
And this isn't just affecting the living humans, it's affecting the past, all the humans that have lived in the past
because what we do now today transforms the meanings of those lives in the past.
And it's affecting processes in gene selection and the evolutionary development of our species dramatically
because whether or not it's yet proven there seems to be a predictive aspect to human reproductive behavior
and at least epigenetic if not genetic changes that arise predictively to create humans that are more suited
to what's at play in the moment and what's coming next.
