Hey everybody, out trying to get a little exercise, both for my body and my awareness.
Sometimes it's difficult to find an un-trafficked place where I can be at ease, at least relatively speaking.
I've been thinking about lots of things, lots of aspects of our modern experience and how it's so rapidly transforming in ways that are unprecedented in the lifetimes of nearly everyone alive today.
And they are also wildly unpredictable. However, if we extrapolate the way science fiction authors often do, sometimes comedians,
a variety of features of the threatened opportunity landscape are surfaced by this behavior end.
Of course, extrapolation is a form of speculation. And so when we begin to extrapolate, it's not uncommon that we begin with a misleading perspective or agenda or concern.
And that's how you get, it's part of what's required to produce what are commonly referred to as somewhat oxymoronically, as conspiracy theories.
Now, I've studied conspiracy theories for a very long time, and I don't claim to be an expert, rather a novice, but they share certain features in common that incline me to remain pretty skeptical to the overall presentation.
There are exceptions.
And when I use the phrase conspiracy theory, it's in no way clear what I'm pointing at, so there's something so ambiguous about that, that my listeners have to decide for themselves,
what might I be referring to? And this kind of weird, open-ended, in one way, and extremely constrictive, judgmentally oriented in another, this polarization, right?
Where's the opening? Towards what does it constrict? Towards what does it become exclusive, meaning to exclude it, to cancel it?
So, when we're extrapolating, we have to be careful, because, well, what do I mean by be careful?
Language is so, you see, language itself is really much more ambiguous than we suppose, and this presents a field for the projection of the concerns,
or fears, or desires, or immediate historical experience, what's going on with someone in the last hour or two, or the last five minutes.
So, we project, motivated by such things, we project onto that ambiguity as readers, and listeners, and audience members,
and language is rife with this kind of ambiguity, so that if I say, we have to be careful, and I don't say exactly what that means, you'll all fill in the blanks there for me,
and if I say the phrase conspiracy theories, you'll do the same thing, you'll fill in the blanks, what is he actually talking about?
And some of you will perhaps feel that I'm attacking some perspective that you champion, or is familiar to you, or you are identified with,
and by the way, becoming identified with a perspective, you want to do any other thing, essentially.
Not meaning that we shouldn't have passion about our perspectives and beliefs, but meaning rather that we shouldn't confuse them with ourselves,
and nor should we confuse statements with the people who make them.
These are really dangerous, common, stumbling blocks in our modern circumstances, which I am inclined to refer to with far more deleterious descriptions.
Give me a moment.
So one of the things that's going on is the way we relate with language and ambiguity is changing,
and it's changing according to a variety of imperatives, nearly none of which we have much say in.
Because, essentially, the first combatant on the battlefield has an advantage in many cases, in many situations,
and in this case, the battlefield was thoroughly populated long before we got anywhere near it as a collective,
and part of the reason is we're not, actually, a collective at all.
We never really formed one yet.
We still have that opportunity.
It might be among the most urgent projects we could pursue,
however partially or reservably we pursue it,
though I think we're going to have to be the opposite of reserved,
and eventually we'll be forced to that position if we don't take it voluntarily 10 years ago.
And there's a lot of advertising by what I would refer to primarily as predatorial, mimetic,
or institutionally manipulative campaigns.
So, what's going on now is because we didn't form any meaningful or effective sense of collectivity,
others are going to do that for us,
and the way they're going to do it is through manipulating our concerns and our grievances,
many of which are disoriented or misfounded, not all of them,
but it's easy to take somebody with an itch and give them a scapegoat.
Here's the thing that's causing your pain.
It's not, for example, that institutions and relatively dangerous mimetic movements
have overwhelmed the clumsy remains of what might once have resembled a democracy or a republic.
It's that immigration is the problem,
where whatever group, whatever target group one can derive,
and make some version of a faintly rational argument for their responsibility.
Now, in some cases, the arguments are not faintly rational, they're hyper-rational,
and that's also dangerous.
We're human beings, we're not rule-following devices,
and the ambiguity in our lives is the necessary coefficient for what we refer to as liberty.
Drop that ambiguity, start making everything into rules,
and liberty becomes a ghost,
and that thing will haunt the people who are thus transformed.
So what do I mean by being careful?
Well, part of what I mean is ambiguous in the sense that I mean
we must be filled with authentic, sincere care for each other,
for the living places, for the living creatures, for the ecologies, not necessarily in that order.
We must become filled with care,
meaning heartfelt reverence and wonder and mutuality, understanding, patience, compassion, play.
So we have to be careful in that sense when we're extrapolating,
but we also have to be careful about the possibly blinding preconceptions
we will extrapolate from for a number of reasons.
One, that we don't produce nonsense, two, that we don't produce paranoia, where it's unjustified,
three, that we don't exaggerate the wrong thing while completely missing the target that our concern actually orbits,
and all of this, and many, I could go on for 40 minutes about the dangers there.
And all of this is folded into our modern thought communally.
It's weird to use that word. I need a better one. I need a word that means
a bunch of ideologically and motivationally confused victims slash perpetrators
who have divided into frightened, reactive, tiny subcultures
unified primarily by their grievances, outrage, anger.
Not that having a grievance is wrong, or not that being angry is wrong.
Again, the way we use language implies things accidentally we would never intend,
and we can try to use it better, and I do, but there's a game of self-limiting returns.
If I'm too careful, I'm too verbose, unless I have compression, which is the orators guardian angel.
Sometimes I manage a little.
In any case, we have to be careful when we're extrapolating,
especially in a situation where most of what's going on is fundamentally mysterious, ambiguous.
Nobody knows the answer, or so few people know the answer that might as well be unavailable to us.
It takes time for us to gather data.
During that time, we are vulnerable, and we're trying to second-guess data
that we have only very partial grasp on, or information that has been intentionally weaponized
to take advantage of our capacity for fractionation internally and communally.
We want to be careful when we're extrapolating, but if we extrapolate, there's a number of features that stand out.
One of them is that the immunology landscape of Homo sapiens is changed, suddenly, unexpectedly,
in a variety of ways that I'm not going to detail, but some of which involve
the intentional weaponization of our own bodies against ourselves.
Whether that was the intent of a player previously or not,
it's now completely on the table due to what's going on.
So what that means is that actors will, certainly, almost certainly, I'm extrapolating.
And by the way, I'm showing you my concerns, right? I'm projecting.
You're seeing what's going on in Darren Psyche today, right now, blah, blah, what's on his mind.
So what I mean is that in the same way that the emergence of the first computer virus
pre-saged things like malware, the events surrounding the pandemic have set the stage for extrapolations,
we should expect to emerge, and many of those extrapolations will certainly be intentional.
In fact, we don't have to wait for a new weapon.
America has been thrown into an internal genocide just by dividing people along various socio-political factions,
some of which intend to act with best intelligence responsibility because things are unknown, right?
So yeah, we don't know, but there are things we do know and we can trust some of those things from historical precedent and research and so on.
So there's this sort of weird climate of negative ambiguity surrounding the pandemic and the government itself, the standing president,
has so far essentially been directing the American people against each other on purpose, purposefully, intentionally.
So this virus by itself can fully be politicized, and this is the argument on many sides of those who are upset for different reasons, right?
The negative ambiguity is at an all-time high, and it's associated with every aspect of our lives, not one.
Freedom, vocation, relationships, freedom of movement, freedom of speech, the possibility of education.
What does healthcare even mean today?
All of these are fundamentally provocative, suddenly, though they always were, now they've been thrown into stark,
so contrast so stark, we can't ignore it anymore, we can't pretend something else is going on much and get away with it.
There's still a little bit of wiggle room for the moment.
Further extrapolations are things like financial and institutional power grabs,
and these include the possibility of our nation collapsing into one of the various lanes of fascism and tyranny.
And we should bear in mind that historically the predecessor to the tyrannical coups that overtake nations is a kind of almost self-parodying degree of the costume of heroism, right?
The costume but not the soul, the framework but not the heart.
So yes, when these structured frameworks escape the weird laboratories of academia and politics, they can become weaponized against the common people.
And by the common people, I simply mean everybody in this nation.
So we're right on the verge of a cascade of problems, which are going to certainly, they already have, they include power grabs, sudden financial piracy.
And weird, rather exotic agendas that have the capacity to set the stage for essentially the total collapse of the institutions and political structure.
That the extremely antiquated political structure we've been sort of chugging along on the remains of is likely to fall, and it's likely to fall fast and hard.
And when it does, when any of these extrapolations emerge into inaction, how should I put this, those who are unprepared, by which I mean nearly everyone, will be in shock.
Many of us already are. That doesn't necessarily, that's not helpful in a crisis.
It's a naturally, you know, it's a natural protective mechanism that helps us negotiate sudden unexpected transformation, usually catastrophic transformation.
And whether it's emotional or psychosocial or, you know, embodied, it's all of those. They're all, we can talk about them separately.
They're all folded in to our being as human beings living in the modern context.
Along with this sudden environmental change in catastrophe, the emergence of other diseases, sudden adventurism militarily, opportunism internationally.
So if we extrapolate even gently along any of these lines, even carefully, if there's a future of any kind at all, from the perspective of my concerns, it looks extremely dangerous and fragile and profoundly vulnerable.
To extreme manipulation, by forces that aren't people, though people embody and enact them, by structured fictions, by what I refer to as para-human intelligence collectives.
And we, the common people, must establish at whatever small scale we can, collectives that are human and intelligent and capable of foresight, understanding, awareness, situational awareness, collective action, protection, defense.
We do this casually all the time when three people come together and agree upon some activity. We're made for doing this.
We would do this naturally without a feeling of obligation or urgency if we were not buried in layers and layers and layers of functional obligation, plausible obligation, tasks,
electronic nonsense, smart phones, automobiles, gas, oil, the obliteration of the oceans, the replacement of the anciently evolved jungles with monoculture farms,
and the extermination of the last few megafauna that still somehow have yet survived.
Now, of course, you and I aren't doing that directly, hopefully.
Our consumerism is the underlying sort of fuel, and that we are consumers disinclines us to innovate, to invent, together.
We want an off-the-shelf delivered version. We want a plan B, and we want someone else to deliver that to us, fully formed, for our critical acceptance or rejection.
Not likely to happen, though there's a few contenders near the edge of a possible table on which something like that could take place.
Unfortunately, we've also learned to consume ideas rather than originate them, and this makes us the perfect targets for viral, mimetic, intrusion, domination, manipulation, and control.
We choose our heroes, sign on to their card, and walk to the battle we now think of as noble with them. It's a bad idea.
I wouldn't even advise you to do it with me. In fact, I'd advise against it.
So, I've talked a little bit about one of the topics on my mind. I don't want to touch on another, which is the propensity, now very common, to refuse...
or admit someone's thought only if, if and only if, the entire card of their humanity is perfectly stainless.
And if the entire card of their thought presents to us nothing that offends us, or confuses us, or comes from an echelon of intellect above that with which we are familiar,
or comes from a domain of political or social commentary, or ideology that we find repulsive or don't believe.
And so what that's doing, again, is it's transforming that transport right between, will be open to these things, and we're going to constrictively exclude all these other things.
We're going to cancel them.
So, a little while ago, someone asked me on Facebook, someone who knows me,
have you heard Jordan Peterson? And I believe it was their purpose to kind of have a laugh with me about having dismissed him, or canceled him.
And I said, yes, I've heard Jordan Peterson a bit, and I think he's brilliant.
And they said, what? You're kidding, right?
And I said, no, no, I've listened to him a number of times, and I find him quite brilliant. It doesn't mean he's perfect, but I learn when listening to him.
And, you know, we went on discussing this a bit, and they were very surprised to hear this, and talked about the Lobster episode, and so on.
And I said, you know, I don't see Jordan as brilliant because I agree with everything he says.
In fact, I see him as brilliant because he causes me to have to think, right, to reflect,
to ask questions that I wouldn't normally ask, to look into cracks I'd never normally notice, cracks in the bizarre structure of modernity.
And I find that fascinating and edifying.
So, yeah, I think he's brilliant. That has nothing to do with whether or not I have disagreements with him on issues of policy or belief or analysis.
Of course, I have issues with him. There might be some things on which we would very fervently disagree, but that doesn't stop me from listening to him.
And it doesn't stop me from listening to other people who I might not like, because they're really intelligent, and even if I don't see eye-to-eye with their concerns, I can gain value, right?
If I have to only listen to the people with whom I completely agree, I'll be listening mostly to nobody, because I'm a very disagreeable bastard.
Way down at the root of things, I have relatively well-developed philosophical and motivational aspects of my thought and concern, and ethical and moral aspects of my thought and concern.
So, it wouldn't be that I wouldn't hear anyone, but it would be a very tiny list, and I would starve intellectually.
And I guess that as someone who identifies both as extremely sensitive, which I am, and intellectual and philosophically-minded, I have to be careful not to dwell only on the side of my intellect,
and depend on that, which I feel relatively more safe in acting, right?
And I have to be careful not to become ironic by allowing my biases and confirmation bias and other kinds of sort of cognitive traps endemic to our human condition
to invade and overcome my capacity for adventure, discovery, relation with ambiguity and mystery,
and the processes that underlie my capacities for understanding.
Those things are delicate.
You don't want to be enforcing strict rules on them, telling yourself you know what's right and good.
There might be exceptions that are relatively concrete, right?
But in general, the urge to stifle freedom of thought, speech, exploration, learning, discovery is incredibly maladaptive for all kinds of reasons,
one of which being, not everyone is at the same level of awareness or education or understanding,
and you can't expect someone to go from step seven to step fifty because you threatened them.
Or, you know, you imp- or some group imposed some obligation upon them to demand they do so, right?
Human transformation takes time.
It's like cooking a great big meal.
You don't just yell at someone, hey, stop being mean, and then it just magically works.
And if you enforce stop being mean on them, you're going to have a serious problem with rebellion
because no one likes to have the ambiguity collapsed for them by others.
No one, right?
There's natural ambiguity in being human.
And it's inc- you can hear the change in my tone, I'm sure.
It's inc- it's an absolutely imperative, in my view, that we preserve that natural ambiguity,
learn to have- treat it with respect and reverence, and learn to allow it to become the vehicle
through which we negotiate learning and opportunity, mutual defense, mutual concern, equality.
This is a negotiation.
Pretending it can be otherwise, these things have to be negotiated, they cannot be mandated.
And that might sound ironic because some of the founding principles written down,
which is very different from what got enacted, about our nation, involve these ideals.
But what I want to be clear about is that the actual possibility of rights, and it's really just a fiction,
you don't have any rights at all, none, zero, you have zero rights.
What we have maybe, just maybe, is the capacity to defend rights that have been established in law.
And if we can't defend those rights, we don't have them.
So really we have the rights we can afford financially or through influence or other means to defend and no more.
And even those aren't exactly rights.
In fact, in point of fact, it might be better to call them privileges.
But this is a complex discussion and veers from my intent.
Which is to suggest, and I really want to be clear, I'm not trying to tell anyone what to think or do.
I'm going on a walk, right, with my mind and my camera.
But I would suggest that the possibility of having something that resembles rights emerges not from mandates and laws,
but from mutual bonding, relatedness, concern, and like physically and in an embodied way and in a behavioral way,
learning to include one another.
