In ways that are not theoretical, not abstract.
So that our mutual concern naturally results in inclusion, respect, reverence, play, wonder, awe, learning, maturation.
These ideals are in some way fundamental to our humanity.
But if we have to declare them, our humanity has collapsed too far to sustain those ideals.
Because now we're going to arrest them on a framework of rules and laws and regulations and courtrooms and lawyers and so on.
Which would be the worst possible thing we could do if we had a better option.
But since it isn't for the moment, it at least provides some small degree of a buffer between us and forces that would easily overwhelm or destroy us.
As individuals, as communities, as families, as ethnicities, as genders, all of us.
So my perspective and suggestion is that by the time you get rights and laws to protect them, the level of our symbiotic humanity has already fallen so low
that we're trying to keep it afloat with mandates.
And that level is too low for me.
And as any of you who've had to struggle with the legal systems know, they're an incredibly ineffective anachronism and unimaginably expensive anachronism
that often fails to produce anything even partially resembling justice.
Because the actual program at play there isn't the production of justice.
It's all kinds of other bizarre sort of parasitic diseases that produce the horrors we refer to as prisons and so on.
And I can hear some people saying, well, how prisons, what are we going to...it's okay.
I've explained it elsewhere.
But we should do almost anything other than prisons, almost.
And I'm not...you know, I'm not required to have an opinion on every current issue in the news, thankfully.
I do have perspectives and some of them seem compelling to me for the moment.
I'm holding them with a loose grip, right?
I'm not deciding that I know what's good or right.
But often I can detect something that's going to fail.
It's much easier to do that than to determine what's going to happen, what will succeed, what's powerful.
It's pretty easy to see when something isn't working right.
And most of the structures, again, the incredibly antiquated structures on which our society is floating are tragically decrepit.
They are not going to survive.
What they might do is transform into something far worse.
That's the most likely outcome there because, like I said, the battlefield's already populated and it has been since before you were born.
And we don't have any forces on that battlefield that are in a position of dominance, right?
We have the capacity as people and groups to come together and assert or demand transformation.
But even that agenda can often go sideways.
It can be used against, it can be flipped over into something that's self-ironizing and has the potential to accomplish the opposite of the goals with which it was invested, in which it was invested.
And my argument here is not that we don't protest we should, but that we be very tactical about how we relate with the field of play and the forces that are dominant in that field
and how they're likely to react and we need tactical intelligence so that when we come together as a people to express our will and the urgencies of our desires for equality and equal opportunity for everyone, we're effective, right?
And, you know, in all kinds of war it's a well-known fact that the aggressor's momentum can be directed against them.
And if we're not tactical and we come together on moss to make demands on the institutions and structures, the dilapidated dying institutions and structures, we're going to pose a threat to them and they're going to respond to that threat tactically with intelligence.
And they've got a lot of it and we as common people have very little because, again, we don't have networks of communal intelligence yet.
I'm going to make a prediction. We will develop them. It may not be until we are forced to and that would be tragic because we can do a much better and more effective job before things are always in crisis, right?
Once they're always in crisis, we're going to have to ramshackle it. It's not going to work well.
But eventually the common people will realize that their safety and well-being lies in each other's hands and not in the hands of institutions, kleptocracies, or perihuman intelligence collectives.
The possibility of them experiencing equality and the preservation of their human dignity lies with each other. It's something we can only give each other in actual relationships that matter to us because we're deeply, heartfully, carefully engaged in them.
And so, in that case, we will take great risks to protect our fellow human peoples because we recognize them as our own family and because they recognize us as our own family.
And the positive ambiguation of that is extremely powerful and the stimuli of the positive observation of caring, intelligent others is profoundly transformative on human beings.
You could set up experiments about this. We've looked at negative observation, how rarely we've looked at positive, the power of positive observation of what happens when the guy catches the baby who's about to fall off the top floor of the escalator at the mall,
and he just manages to be there and save that kid and people go wild, right?
And he feels, perhaps, that, wow, I accomplished something truly meaningful with my life, right?
Positive observation transforms us. It nourishes us. We're like dolphins who breathe that air, but we've been really distracted and so we don't notice how profoundly transformative the caring, enthusiastic, positive observation of what happens when the guy catches the baby.
That's what positive observation of others can be for us. Unless we look at things, for example, like sports teams, comedians, performing artists, rock stars, right, what are they after?
They want positive observation and it's a big payoff when they get it. Everybody has a big celebration.
So we should think together more about this, especially when we think tactically.
And, of course, I guess my language presupposes that there will be a we to do such thinking.
In other words, that the common people will find ways to come together intelligently, humanely, guided by care and mutual concern, compassionately, and form the little collective teams that have the capacity to succeed where armies must fail.
These are my thoughts for the moment. Be well, be blessed. Thank you for joining me. Bye-bye for now.
