Well, it's not clear that there are or are not such things, but there are
for sure something that resembles that thing, at least slightly, that we could encounter directly
and know, ah, that's what that was all about.
And boy, it's about something pretty beyond all hope of framing in words.
Yeah, it just rips the skin off your ordinary consciousness and introduces you to its origins,
among other things, though different encounters, you know, your mileage may vary.
In any case, try to remember. And time space can be meaningfully understood as memory.
And all of the forms and structures you see derive from something we at least usually call
transcendental, even though the term is value-laden now.
But what I mean by that is in the same way that
I have hearing, and then I have para-hearing, but then I have the aspect of awareness that
organizes hearing. It was so weird to have the song in my mind, even though, again,
totally normal, except that tonight I'm thinking about memory and its transformations.
And the song was playing in the background of my mind very insistently.
I didn't, I wasn't trying to play it. It was just playing.
There's a kind of magic in that.
Trying to remember.
So, you know, I talk a lot about dreaming and I've spoken a number of times
about the opposite of lucid dreaming, which, you know, is a noble enough pursuit.
I think it's a truly astonishing pursuit.
And yet, it can swallow the brilliant urge with which we originally pursued it
in a way that collapses that urge at a phase of its development that would be
very excited to exceed.
So,
there are many layers and depths to lucid dreaming.
And there's lots of different forms and modes of the experience
that we could usefully distinguish.
The blanket term, though, refers to the onset of something resembling
conscious awareness in dreaming. And so, there's a suddenly a doublet
where there was previously a singlet, much like our waking experience. Yeah, there's a doublet there.
You have the dream manifold, so to speak. And then you have the presence of the dreaming awareness
being in there. And then suddenly, partial awareness comes from an aspect of waking
and intrudes without collapsing the manifold so that the dream proceeds
rather than just dissolves into waking up, in which case you have a singlet again.
That doubling of awareness. The one who is dreaming is still dreaming.
And the second one comes, we might say, who is not the dreaming mind and participates
in the dreaming without being so intrusive that we wake up.
And then all kinds of amazing experiences ensue. Some of them very deep.
Most could be explained away, which is not my goal at all, because I think it's a very clumsy
step to do so. Many of these could be dismissed as
awareness playing with its own forward-facing projection or the flashlight of the mind,
so to speak. The son of the mind is a better metaphor by far.
So in lucid dreaming, using the term very generally,
it's as if an aspect of our waking consciousness,
the part that thinks it's real, by the way, the part that thinks about what's real,
the aspect or faculty that does this,
begins to interact with its aerial origin in a unique way.
And so a variety of astonishing effects ensue.
And again, there are many layers of this. In other words, one can keep going deeper
to sort of a more primordial situation.
But what if...
I mean, I guess I have at least two questions and probably seven. But a couple of them are,
we think when we're awake, we're awake. What if we've got that wrong?
Or what if we don't have it wrong, but there's a better position?
A much better position. A position that makes that one seem trivial.
And I say there is, and I say our minds are made of it, and I say we can remember it together.
Now, the second question is,
so we might imagine, okay, the relatively gentle intrusion of certain faculties of waking
consciousness into the dreaming context or manifold produces astonishing results.
But some of them are very weird, I have to say.
There's a vast continuum of results that this can produce. And every instance of it
is as unique as it is similar to the class of these things.
Just like humans, just like moments of consciousness, just like organisms, everything.
Life phases, all the stuff we've all forgotten.
So, my second question is,
if that's what lucid dreaming is, what would lucid waking be?
Would it be the gentle intrusion of some of the peculiar faculties involved in dreaming,
in waking consciousness? And whether or not the answer is yes, it would sometimes be that.
And that's an interesting thing to think about, a very interesting thing,
a fascinating thing to pursue with some degree of sobriety and caution, discipline.
And not merely through the use of intoxicants.
So, yeah, we might imagine that there's a corollary.
The problem is the gentle intrusion of faculties from waking consciousness into the dreaming context
is very different from what usually happens. It's not really true, I know.
I think the dreaming faculties, these are primordial to waking consciousness.
They are its origin. And without the dreaming faculties, there would be no consciousness.
And these are transformations of memory. I'm trying to remember. I really am.
I took a second break and when I went into the same room in which
my memory was making music, the same thing happened, the same song happened again.
It just happened to me. I did not even intend it, I have to say.
So there must be faculties underneath consciousness, you see. It's a certainty
that have their own,
not merely whimsical, but exotic, fascinatingly unusual
character.
Oh, memory. I sing to thee, to thee I sing in wonder.
So I think the problem is that
there's a position that encompasses all of the faculties of dreaming and
the relatively impoverished, believe me, toys of waking consciousness, concepts and ideas and
beliefs and opinions and things, words, language, usually, not always.
What if we could have, and I know we can, and strangely I'm having it to his degree right now,
because I suspect I've accidentally invoked it. And this is one of the ways. We don't have to
think of it in terms of magic. Invocation is a fundamental principle of being human.
What if, while awake, we could see through the kind of dreaming that waking consciousness is
and so introduce the lost dimensionality
and an entire array of playfully brilliant intelligences within it.
This is the opportunity before us in every moment, if we remember.
Particularly if we remember together. This is a different thing than just remembering something.
So to thinking or feeling or all these things. So accident people get together in giant crowds
to have extreme emotions. That's absolutely, they're just building in an emotional amplifier
and it works really well. But even in tiny groups of two or four or seven, whatever.
It's also, we secretly know that we're an amplifier, but none of us are conscious of that.
And so we can't play at that level except in the relatively limited and habitual ways that
people naturally do. Even when they're inhibited by history and habit and context and the way
they're waking world. So the two faculties are certainly better together than they are with
one of them dominating. It's basically like asking the question, which hand would you prefer to have
or keep or be able to use again or something like this. You might be able to say, well,
generally speaking, if I'm right handed, I'd probably want to keep that one, but
there's no need to lose the other hand. In the evolution of,
it's not exactly consciousness though, it's often, that word's often used.
In the evolution of human cognition, maybe is more what I mean.
There are little apocalypses where one of the hands was simply amputated.
And usually when people say the real, they're using the remains of what used to be
vastly more sophisticated. Awareness of the situation in the mind and how not to make these
cuts and to make these other cuts and the layered complexities, the topologies, meaning
natural senses, right? Not things we think about natural senses.
The origin senses are vastly older, the dreaming senses than the thinking senses.
So one of the things I was concerned about is that,
whereas the intrusion of the waking mind into the dreaming context or faculties from it,
when it succeeds, it's gentle enough. But if it penetrates fiercely, so to speak, or
if it doesn't succeed at being gentle enough, the manifold collapses when we wake up,
and then we're, of course, in the singlet of the faculties that were coming to sort of marvel
at the dreaming situation. But I'm afraid that in the opposite lucid waking,
the dreaming faculties are inclined to become
confusingly distorted by
really the vulnerability and simplicity of structure of waking consciousness. It's as if
there's two beings in us, and the waking consciousness is very defensive. It knows secretly
that it's a tiny part of what's going on, but it wants to tell you what's real and what isn't.
And that isn't stuff is to be dismissed. And mostly what's real is its proclamations.
Whatever those proclamations are, yeah, that's what's real to that aspect of consciousness
when it's very compressed and pointy.
It doesn't have to be that way. It can be cajoled into loosening up by its older sister if,
you know, the proper circumstances obtain.
But lucid waking is my curiosity.
And I've had experiences of it, so I remember. I remember there are such experiences.
And it might be part of why they're so rare is that they're much more accessible in a group,
vastly more accessible in a group.
There's a contagious enthusiasm in the amplifier problem.
So I want to ask you some things about the flashlight.
I want to ask myself them too.
The flashlight never sees itself.
And the reason is that the structure of the situation is such
that an array of feedback effects are involved. And it's extremely difficult to go back upstream
from the flashlight that reveals things to us and the flashlight of our consciousness that
interprets them and so forth, right? It's really just one light, but it has features that work differently.
And there's all these analogies of the eye doesn't see seeing very important idea, but kind of cliche.
Useful, but a little cliche.
The eye can't see seeing.
It doesn't see back into its origin. It sees as it does.
But consciousness and awareness, they have the capacity to flip over.
And this is part of why psychedelic drugs are fascinating and dangerous.
And psychedelic experience can be understood as the waking consciousness being suddenly overwhelmed
by its features of its own origin. And not just origin and history, though that too.
Origin moment to moment, right now here while you're listening, there are primordial processes in
you available to your awareness, but unfamiliar to your consciousness. You would remember them if you
suddenly experienced them or moved within
the ladder of your mind to a slightly higher rung. It doesn't have to be higher,
it could be lower too, or even to the side. That doesn't matter, a different rung
that polarizes the relationship between the dreaming mind, memory, and the waking mind differently.
Like lenses in a way.
And psychedelic drugs essentially, not entirely, but essentially force this experience on us.
And of course, the experience interacts with the manifold of waking consciousness in all kinds of
astonishing ways, and sometimes brilliant ways. But it's dangerous.
And almost everyone notices that it's very difficult, if not...
a moment.
It's very difficult, if not ironic,
to try to preserve the content of psychedelic experience or wonderment or realization,
seeming realization in the waking mind thereafter. It doesn't matter if you try to write it down,
it won't make any sense, and the reason usually, there are exceptions,
but part of the reason that's true is that it contains a form of dimensionality that doesn't...
we don't play that way here.
A complex topic, related though, because what I really want to see here together,
and remind myself of, and remember, to bring back into my direct experience to invoke, is...
if my waking consciousness is a transform or a derivation of a kind of dreaming,
so that this world is less real than a nearby accessible position that is true to my nature
and origin and being, then I want that position, and if there's a second one, even better.
Really, what I'm starving for is that, all of my desires lead in that direction, but of course,
there's another branch of the situation, which is that trying to remember my father's house while
in the darkness of waking consciousness.
Not stories.
When I'm walking in my actual father's house, it doesn't matter what story I have, it's dark.
There are steps and strange configurations of space that are not intimate with,
not intimate with these yet, so I have to pay very close attention.
I'm remembering my father's house,
or one might say memorizing. What is that even? Yeah.
All these problems. They're beautiful problems though, and the direction they lead in
is trustworthy, much more trustworthy than the dreaming mind or the waking mind.
But I want to remind myself, what the hell is going on when I am dreaming?
What the hell is happening there?
I am asleep, and I think we don't know really what that means. I have to say,
whatever the hell that sleeping thing is, it's not anything regular and ordinary the way we pretend
by because we have this word for it called sleep. Apparently, everyone knows what sleep means.
Nobody has the slightest idea what sleeping is. Nobody good. Nobody who's really on the question.
No, no, no. Some of the most ordinary things in our lives are absolutely bizarre,
and what I mean by that is filled with accessible,
full. These are frontiers for our lives and minds and hearts. There's a profound ache in us to remember,
which means to see. Again, anew. To remember the nature of birth and death and time and light
and memory and thought, the seeming absolute realness of myself in all the ways we think about itself.
Those are very crude toys compared to what's going on, I promise you.
There are, there's a library of degrees of liberty.
Not just available to us, we are made of them. They're not things you obtain.
