Hello everybody. Welcome. I appreciate the time you're taking to listen. I hope we will
have wonderful success in learning to see in new ways and think and act in new ways together.
I like to walk around in dark places. I always have. The fewer lights the better for the most part.
I'm trying tonight to remember something, but it's not the ordinary kind of remembering. In
fact, it might be remembering about remembering. About what remembering truly is rather than our
concepts and the way we think about it, but also about remembering beyond ordinary experience. We
have all kinds of experiences and not all of them are conscious. And so there are kinds of remembering
that are about non-conscious experience or at least non-awake conscious experience. We say some
things are real, but the real things are extremely explicit. And the ear real things are vastly more
numerous and surprising. And the real things seem to be collapsing. Derivations of these ear real
things that simply aren't concrete like the cement or you know, all of the relatively stable objects
that appear to my waking awareness. These lights, the night sky. Though the lights and the night
sky are different orders of the real. And so if we might try to understand what remembering truly is,
we might also want to reflect on what does real actually mean, not in the common human conceptual
explanations. What is the nature of realness if we could lift ourselves above our ordinary confines
and see, ah, realness is dot, dot, dot. And I won't say what it is. I like to walk in dark places and
as I pass through rooms in the homes that I'm in, I rarely turn on the lights. Once I know them well,
I certainly don't need any light at all in my own home. It would be a little more difficult to navigate
it entirely blind, but I can be mostly blind and find my way just fine. And I know where objects are
by feel. I can find them with my hands. And I, so I must have a memory, you see, of not just the
paths between the rooms. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. I want that screw I put in the junk drawer. Four
years ago, I can go get that screw. Something in me knows where not everything, but lots of stuff is. I
exaggerated with the screw example. But I could go get a tool or a fork or a glass or some food.
If I'm going to make food, I turn the lights on. Turning the lights on. So lately, having been here and
there, I find myself having to traverse my father's home. It's a big home compared to mine.
Much more complex. And as I'm there alone, as I walk through the rooms, I have to learn them with my
inner senses. Now, here's the thing I'd like to suggest that that's a metaphor for something we're
doing while we think we're awake. We are, so to speak, walking through our father's house. But
because all the lights are on, we never become intimate with it. And we have forgotten that we
are walking. Again, in a very important and useful manner of speaking, in the house of
dot, dot, dot, it should not be said or collapsed. So we're always walking in our father's house,
but we can't remember the nature of the house. We just see the strange appearances, the cars and
the trees and the cat and the fork and the dollar bill and all the computer screens and such.
But we are walking in our father's house. And if we could see behind the charade for a moment or
from above our position in time, or from above our position in singular local identity.
It's almost as if you could flip over the light inside you that generates coherent, conscious
experience to shine on itself. Then the charade would be up, the jig would be up.
So you see, I myself am trying to remember this. I'm trying to remember before the before of
consciousness that you're real. I'm trying to remember. Well, for me, it's a little bit strange
since I've had experience from above my own identity. And I've had experience from outside
linear time. Nonetheless, let us consider this matter because the salmon swims upstream at a certain
point in its life. Of course, there are many kinds of salmon in each individual salmon is a unique
salmon. But the salmon, when we speak of them as a group, certain forms of them spawn in the
waters they were born in. And so they have to heroically traverse waterfalls and bears and such.
And it's a truly heroic, astonishing spectacle of life being unstoppable.
If we could swim upstream in our minds from the flashlight we shine onto the world, thinking
that the world is out there and coming into us through our eyes and senses and thoughts and
all these things. And that's a totally ordinary everyday experience. I'm having it right now.
I am walking in an old neighborhood, a suburban neighborhood. There are trees and lights and
cars and trucks and cement and asphalt, grasses, shrubs, all these insects on the ground, many
beetles, many roach type beetles, water bugs. It's their mating season this moon. All these things,
the sky, the mind I'm speaking from, all congealing in some kind of a light. Or at least something
that is the, that light is a derivation of. Yes, yes, it's like this. Light is a lower order
derivation of something. And we could say, oh yes, of course, it's energy. Ah, really, what is that?
Well, it's molecular and atomic and quantum excitation or something like this. Okay,
what is electricity? Well, what is the quantum foam? Well, we don't know what any of these
things are. We have stepladder catchphrases to put a circle around the mostly unknown thing.
We don't know, for example, that electricity is one of the forms, this is just a wild guess here,
of the nature of whatever it is that is real, dot, dot, dot, because we want to know what real
means, doesn't just mean objectively present. That's a very conceptual idea. Why is there realness?
Right? Who or what makes realness? And how could we understand above the derivatives?
What is light? What is time? Why are there identities? Do I have access to all minds in all
of time? Or am I just limited to this body? What are minds? Why are there beings? Death? What is
this? Dreaming? Ecstasy? Adoration? What are these things? The simple explanations do not suffice.
They are dismissive. They don't give us what we need to learn to see beyond the relatively
crude toys of identity and meaning and so on, like tokenization and language that we are given.
But this is not my point. I'm still trying to remember
to draw back into my awareness in this moment, impossible memories.
I'm trying to remember impossible memories. I want to know my memories from before this body.
Whatever it is that congealed into me was something before it was this body.
In the same way, our models of how solar systems and such are born
are congealing based, right? Something became the sun, time space itself. But what is that?
What is time space for? Is it a being? Is it a thing, an object? What is it? Normally,
we treat it as an object. It is not an object, I promise you this. No, no, no. Time space is.
I'd have to wax poetic. But again, that's not my point. I'm trying to learn my father's house,
and I'm trying to remember the original nursery where my soul arose.
Here's a cat, she's taking off, and here are some people walking their dog.
Hey, nice to see you. Sort of.
So, I'm trying to remember the nature of memory.
I'm trying to remember what above my local, momentary, conscious
experience knows, but does not speak.
I've seen,
I have seen beauty
so beyond my wildest hopes and imaginations. And of course, I see it every day in the sky,
in the tree, in the cat, and the people walking their dog. But I've seen beyond
the structured, what is it? It's a falseness.
The structured falseness that is our common way of being in the world, in our minds and bodies.
I've seen impossible, impossible, impossibles.
And known them as good and true and brilliant.
Trying to remember.
Walking in the dark and learning my father's house.
Because you see, something is going on. And you could say, Darren,
stop with the metaphysical, parables and such. No, no, no, no. Now, something's going on.
It's a medical sexual.
And I don't care if it's metaphysical or not. It doesn't even matter.
Something's going on and we're made of it. Our core is touching it in every instant of our lives.
And we draw our experience of being from this core. And that core, if we should swim back upstream
like the salmon toward the origin of our minds, we will find a garden.
It's one thing I can call it. It's not a regular garden with plants and trees,
but there's a garden there. And the garden, you know what it means that things are real.
And you know the nature of the things that are aerial, how these two play together.
And without one, there is not the other. It's not just a jaguar. You can't go around like,
you know, you know, one legged cow and go and like, Oh, no, there's just these things I can touch and
feel. That's all that there is. Oh, no, no, no, no. In fact, the mind with which one forms that
particular objection is the toy of intelligences that so far surpass it as to render its babblings
dot, dot, dot.
Trying to remember and by remember to see. You know, I don't know how
images appear in other people's minds or don't. My own imagination is this is a kind of one of
the mysterious things, right? It goes back to the, I remember on the playground when we actually
together came up with the question because it, we were at that age of development where
the nature of identity was
still very
open. And so we asked each other, you know, how can we figure out whether the green thing I see
looks green to you inside you? How can we tell? How would we know? It was an epistemological question.
Right? We're like seven year old kids having epistemological crises on the playground.
How would we figure out if you have the same experience of red on the red car, for example,
red flower, the scraped knee that I have? Are we both having the same experience with that red?
I know that you call that red and I call that red and we both agree on the pointing part.
Calling is pointing. We agree on the pointing part. Of course, this is red. We both know it.
The colorblind person will have a unique experience.
And you'd be better off if you had a person who sees color and three differently colorblind people
than you would if you just had people who see color. For one thing, the differently colorblind
people relate with color in a way that will expose things that the people who see color cannot see.
And we have to do the same thing with our minds. It's the same kind of thing, right?
There's people who see certain kinds of light and they have ideas and opinions and so on.
You know, I have them too. But what we really need is a group of diverse, different kinds
of seeing in order to see. And so, if we cannot have this in our daily lives together with people
we know, and by all means, let us do so, we have to form, we may form cooperative
faculties in our own minds that can produce lift, that can lift us above the structured
work-a-day world that is our everyday experience so that we can begin to see what the nature of the
stream we came from is and why it might be interesting to go back to the origins of that
stream. And in that stream, I mean our souls, our consciousness, our minds, our bodies, right?
Our families, yeah, all these things. The animals, the insects, the sky, all these things.
One body, appearing as you and me, it seems. Or rather, it doesn't seem that way. It's something I
remember. It's something I remember. I'm trying to remember my father's house as it actually is
rather than as it appears to my habituated, waking world aware.
I'm walking in the dark. Now, I don't know how things appear in other people's memories. And
by things, I mean not so much if I imagine, if I ask you to imagine something, although that's a
specific memory transformation. In fact, consciousness is transformations of memory in
case this isn't clear. That's what it is. No memory. You're not going to have anything resembling
consciousness in terms of like being an identity and there seeming to be things around you and
tasks and goals and things to avoid and such. Those are all transformations of memory.
And so too, it would be very difficult to have feelings of any kind at all if we didn't have
memory. Think about it. How would you figure something into consciousness without the fundamental
substrate that becomes infigured? What is that fundamental substrate? It is memory. Without it,
no thought, no dreaming, no words, ideas, math, science, nothing, nothing, no memory,
nothing, no animals because you have different kinds of memory, right? Though the kind I'm talking
about is in the mind. So yeah, we have the conservation of genomes over the conservation
and transformation of genomes over vast epochs of flat time and catastrophic infinities of lived time.
What if I could remember what memory is truly for? Not in a utilitarian sense so much.
What if I could remember what memory is most truly or much more truly doing? What if once I knew or what
if deep in the core of my essence there are faculties that know? And perhaps it's not inside me.
Perhaps it's not inside me. What if deep in the core of our shared humanity there is a pool
of transcendental memory? Of course, I think, honestly, the truth is more shocking than all
of those things. It's just very dangerous to talk about it openly and bluntly. It seems indelicate.
So perhaps I'll resist the urge.
Surely you can see that all of the forms and objects and organisms
that you encounter while you're awake can be understood meaningfully as modes of memory.
The car models, the forks, the stones, butterflies and dragonflies,
praying mantises, jumping spiders, octopuses, whales, pigs, orchids, poppies,
grasses and herbs and dolphins,
orangutans, bears, badgers, cats and dogs, mice, asphalt, concrete. These are hypostases of time,
space, and they obey various orderly principles or transorderly principles,
principles that produce unique instances of ordered forms in time, space.
All of this is memory and I'm trying to remember that.
I'm trying to recall what once I so clearly and directly experienced.
Now I don't know what happens if people imagine things, but the earlier I've had a few experiences
this evening, very simple ordinary experiences where I'm recalling a recent interaction with someone.
One was an interaction with a grocery store clerk nearby and the other was a moment of a conversation
with somebody close to me and although I could still see the room around me, my eyes open,
I could also
para see, right? Not quite seeing, but in a second aspect of my mind
and it took a lot of attention, it sort of, it shunts the flow of consciousness in a particular way
to do this for me. I could
not see, but half dream the memories. This is a very strange thing.
This is a very strange thing, even though it's entirely ordinary and I'm not sure how it might be
for you. Take a moment if you want and remember an interaction with someone, even while you're
still listening to this podcast if you want, or you know, pause it and try it. Try both.
And then I took a brief break in making the recording and was in my father's house
in at least two senses.
And I began remembering a song I had written on the guitar.
This is a very emotional thing for me, that song, but
my sense of hearing was still hearing the sounds where I was,
but there is a para hearing sense in which the notes were being played and it wasn't,
though I could hear them, wasn't that I could hear them? No.
It's something more primordial than hearing.
It's what hearing is a derivative of, because hearing is not merely the reception of sound
as we might clinically declare.
No, no, no. Hearing is not the mere reception of sound. There's an organizing feature and there's
arrays of organizing features that cohere together and synchronize and produce hearing.
These are features of awareness.
I'm still trying to remember when I was walking in the darkness in my father's house. Now you know.
Some houses have angels.
And some have shadows and some have both.
But often in the house there's an angel there.
Might not look like one in ordinary waking consciousness,
but if you could step above that for a moment, you'd immediately see,
oh my goodness, there's an angel in this house.
And I'm not implying Christianity or Judaism or Islam doesn't require these implications.
What the hell is an angel?
