Again, the problem with the language here, these are what you're using moment to moment.
You're employing these things to make a very thin and very crude
representation in your thought of what the world and things are, and our for, and our doing, and so
business. Your definition of business is what I'm talking about.
And most of us have a really crappy one that has nothing to do with what's going on. It's just very
insistent and it, and it's found a way to match up with
the seeming persistence of the physical world.
That's its weapon, that one thing.
There's a power in that key, I promise.
These originary faculties
could be understood as memories, children.
And when I'm constantly at pains to explain and when I suffer from myself, just like all
all of us, quote, ordinary people, unquote, do suffer this way.
I believe this in an insistent appearance of physical reality. It's pretty obviously real.
I can't pretend the car's not there. I can do all kinds of transforms in thought about why the car
is there and so on and so forth. Or that it's just a manifestation in awareness or any kind of crazy
thing. That won't help me much.
Really what I want to do is climb back up the ladder toward the origin
of the discriminating consciousness that is my common experience of waking,
though it transforms if I manage to invoke or stumble into it.
The other day I saw a crane fly laying her eggs in a little depression in the
earth that she had dug and she was dancing. In that moment, I lost my regular mind.
I wasn't exactly dreaming, but I knew that it was,
it called me to a position above my ordinary waking mind.
And I was, you know, confused and this is all post-hoc right after the event.
But I was fascinated and wondered watching this amazing spectacle of
countless billions of lives in her eggs.
My ordinary waking mind wouldn't make much of that.
It would do something like, dude, it's just a bug laying eggs. What's your problem?
Or at least a critical aspect of consciousness might say something like that.
I don't give that much drift.
New forms of dimensionality were suddenly introduced into my experience during that event
because I was available to them to some small degree. It didn't pass me by,
but there's nothing but such events. All events are this kind of event.
But in this moment, the negotiation between my dreaming mind and my waking mind was disrupted.
And so I saw something impossible and irreal rather than merely the real thing before me.
Of course, I saw them both. I didn't lose the real thing. I just acquired a bunch of other
dimensions of awareness and seeing and participation and memory.
This waking consciousness stuff where I know, you know, that's a mall, that's a car, that's a tree.
I'm Darren. What am I doing? Why am I doing it? I'm watching the show. I'm pedaling the bike.
I'm writing the words. I'm making the food and washing the dishes.
Pooping and eating and showering and sleeping and dreaming and all these things.
But what if I'm not Darren? What if most of what I am isn't Darren? And the part of me that's Darren
is a little tiny bit on the end of a vast universe of beings.
What if I've got it backwards? What if I'm a local instance of all the beings and all the dreaming
and all the waking consciousness?
A unique point of presence in the network.
But the entire network is at that point of presence, always.
What is going on when we're dreaming? Look,
those experiences, we can think they are not real, but are we sure that there are only two kinds of
experience, the real experience of being awake and the supposedly ear real experience of dreaming?
Are there only those two kinds?
Do they overlap? Because surely, not in all dreams, but in many, a presentation that appears
like the physical world does not exactly the same always, but similar to it is in there.
So you can see cars and houses and shops and fields and forests and animals and all kinds of
things, right? But they're all things familiar from your waking experience.
But why then are these things, when we are awake, not familiar from our dreaming experience?
They must be. We must think they originate in our waking experience and, you know, it's not unreasonable.
But they might not originate at all without our dreaming experience. What if
experiencing the car and the street and the insect and so on? What if this is a mode of dreaming that
we have never penetrated with our consciousness the way that we do in lucid dreaming?
And when I say what if, I really mean, it's very unlikely that any other thing, any other situation
obtains here. This is what is going on. We're having a different kind of dream that we can
never penetrate with the dreaming consciousness safely. And so we take it to be real. It is not real.
It's certainly the physical things are here and they persist between waking and sleeping.
But that's not where they're not real. Where they're not real is
they're a mode of dreaming and their identities are nothing like what we consider when awake.
This thing we call waking is a transformation of consciousness and time space.
In an aware being who is also all the beings who is also little subnets of beings.
Dead and alive in this toy of it. I'm not saying these things are so. I'm saying these are useful
ways to see. So what is going on when we are dreaming?
We have this word and it's easy to dismiss something very astonishing once we have a
word for it. Oh, that's just a dream. There's nothing more astonishing than that. Your body is
essentially paralyzed. Your unconscious and universes emerge in your awareness and are
perfectly real to your experience of them. The fact that they are not physical does not mean
they are not real. They are perfectly real to your experience of them.
And then perhaps the waking consciousness intrudes some and now they are both real and
ear real. You see? The doublet.
In a lucid dream.
I long for lucid awakening. Again, I want to remember it and by this I mean I want to become it.
Myself, I do. There are other wonderful important urgencies in my soul.
But without this it's as if I'm blind. I'm in my father's house and I can't even tell I'm bumping
into the walls and knocking over the guitar and stepping on the angel and can't even tell.
Oh, help me see if I can see a little bit better, more deeply, in new ways at the same time.
Then I will begin to remember as we always do.
Thank you for joining me.
I look forward to remembering again together sometime very soon.
