And I decided all these little distinctions.
See all those little lines on there?
See how all the lines on here are just general and warbly, but on here they're
really distinct.
It's like unity and distinction here.
And then there's this wrist that connects it to a body.
Just like it's got, it's one whole thing first.
So it's a whole made of parts.
It has one unifying body, one thinking member with two major sections, neck and head.
One, two, three, four, one, two, three, four working members, which with three sections.
What if everything's like that?
So that I'm a little crazy.
I'm a little insane.
It's a bit divine.
It's somewhat alien.
There's something demonic afoot.
Afoot.
And nature, time, light, stars, space, intelligence, itself, humanity, history, evolution,
one thing, what if it's written right here?
And what if I really don't know what I'm doing?
And what if I have no idea what this means?
But we're just learning it together right now.
Do you notice how I use my hands as if they could sing to you or, or shape worlds and
just fling them across the divide between us and, and draw you back into me and, and dance
together and then include the universe and just bring that whole thing down in here and
then spin and joy and dance and sing with this.
You know what's interesting about this?
It's hypnotic.
It puts us in a trance just to see it.
This is why people on psychedelic drugs often, they just become fascinated with this.
And this is why magicians learn to use their hands in ways that are evocative and that
invoke wonder.
By the way, I'm actually shivering right now.
And I'm shivering because I'm so excited about what I'm sharing with you, what I'm
learning right now with you.
And you've probably heard people on stage say that.
People like magicians or politicians or self-help coaches.
The difference between me and them is really interesting.
They want to use you to raise them up and then get you to give them a bunch of money.
Okay.
I want to use this force between us to raise you up farther than me, much higher than me.
And then from up there, you will teach me things that I could never learn about you.
And everyone will think that I am smart or I am psychic or I am an alien.
Or I am a demon, or they'll try to put me in you, maybe even to you in some category,
but that won't work.
I don't know what I'm doing.
I'm not even lecturing.
I don't even know what I'm saying.
So how are we getting intelligence this clear?
And this beautiful and this exciting, so exciting, I'm shivering as I'm learning it.
And I've learned a lot of interesting things.
It's, it's hard to shock me, but you're managing it right now, you, all of you.
And instead of the fakery that we get with them, by the way, we're going to hang out here for a little while.
I brought a little food, a little water, I intend to just hang out for a bit and learn.
This is school for me.
And I'm just playing around here.
We're, we're sketching on paths like children in school, right?
We're just learning.
I have no religion to sell, no paradigm.
I want you to forget my face.
I'm only, the only reason I'm including my face is because this is evocative.
Otherwise, I would just wear a mask with nothing.
So it would be blank and you can have any face here.
And you can still do that.
Just imagine that I'm any face so that you don't know who I am.
Now, what happened to this kid, by the way, back then?
What was it that he contacted that was teaching him?
And what happened to him?
And what was his future and all of that?
Well, here's the joke.
He never found out because he realized that everything is like that.
And you and I are actually having that experience right now.
What is this?
Are you sure you know?
I even don't know and I'm supposedly making it.
And really, when I say I don't know, I'm not joking with you like someone who would fool around with you or a conman or a politician or a self-help coach or even a well-intentioned and beautifully skillful psychic.
No, I want you to get all the treasure and I'm going to pay you every piece of money I can possibly get.
Every piece of value that I can derive from a game I'm going to teach you how to play right now together and you don't have to believe any of it.
You can throw me away.
You can forget my name.
You can forget we ever met because just, I don't even know.
Now, other people will tell you things that are really crazy.
They'll tell you things like you want to be successful.
You know what?
Their idea of success, most of those people, is backwards.
Their idea of success means with money, fame, and power.
Money is blood, fame's a lie.
And real power looks like the power of an infant child to unify those around it immediately into a pod that's like this, that now has an intelligence older than time.
This is a physical expression of an intelligence older than time.
We overlook it.
Let me explain what I mean.
This informs our brains, structural development.
In the same way this has informed our species, evolutionary development, from animals in nature as all the other animals there were, which we don't understand what those are even slightly, by the way.
If you had any idea, not much would be very interested in machines ever again.
Or any other movie or book or anything.
You get an idea of what an animal is.
You're going to forget about human culture.
The same way in which a person has been eating rocks all their life, when suddenly introduced to a peach, is first of all, they're just going to fall unconscious.
They're not going to be able to handle it.
It's going to just knock them out and they're going to shiver and maybe vomit.
And they're going to look like they're dying.
They're going to think they're dying.
And when they wake up, they'll never eat a rock again.
They won't allow anyone to eat rocks around them.
You want to find out what an animal is and a plant.
Because there are nothing like the human stories.
They're beyond all religion, more than all religion, more than all science, in a single plant.
In a single animal.
Don't forget that.
They make networks.
Our minds come out of those.
It's important.
I actually lost my train of thought.
Because I'm so excited about what I'm learning here.
Anyway, you'll see people working, oh yeah, the hand.
This is actually what's driving our evolutionary development.
And as you'll see, we do things with our hands now all the time.
In our hands, with our hands.
If you have little hand demons all lit up in there, that used to be our unity.
Now it's a little electronic, light, bright thing that throws advertisements at you for mimics.
We'll get to that.
Don't let them fuck up your hand.
Don't let them make you forget about this.
I'm going to remind you.
Remind all your children.
I'll keep reminding you in new ways all the time.
But this drives the development of our minds.
What we do with this is everything.
This, we can't know what it is.
No one can know.
No one can tell you or teach you.
They can teach you things about it.
Not what it is.
This helps us discover whatness so you can't know what that is.
Like intelligence itself, like us together now.
What are we?
We don't know.
We're not a cult.
We're not even a pod.
We're something there's no name for, but we're learning together fast.
We overlook this.
You open something, you close something.
You read something, you caress someone.
You eat something, you throw something away.
You lock something.
You lock it.
You type.
You look up.
You scroll.
You expand.
You zoom.
You shrink.
You move.
You jam.
No, no, no.
You drum.
Boom, boom, boom.
You play the guitar.
You play pianos.
You have sexual encounters with the hands.
You check out things with food.
You open them up.
You repair them.
You drive a car.
You get something.
You give something.
What is this?
Could this be a signaling device of divine intelligence?
Could this be a map?
If there was an intelligence in the universe and it wanted to give us all a map that we
couldn't lose, that we would be involved in and with every time we did anything, including
me talking to you right now.
Two maps, actually, that aren't precisely the same.
They complement and oppose one another.
They can move in a strange kind of unity.
But is it once complementary, reflective, in conflict and distinct?
The hands.
They are.
Our culture and our intelligence comes with and from what we do with them.
What we do with our hands.
By the way, YouTube has recently learned this.
And so what they're doing, if they're scrolling through your images with a machine intelligence
that looks for hand gestures, let's see, I'm ahead of their game and you should be too.
I'm Italian and we speak with our hands.
We give the song of our soul with our hands and we receive and request.
We hide and we reject with our hands.
So it's very natural for me to under step, har, a star, hand to under step, hand.
But this strange structure and the wrist is like this structure.
And the wrist that connects us all, so to speak, doesn't connect us because we're not really distinct.
It actually distinguishes us all from unity is the right way.
So we've got it backwards.
In the future, you're changing the past through my mouth and my hands.
We overlook our hands.
We don't realize that they're instructing our development very rapidly in evolutionary cycles inside us that are cognitive rather than physical.
They affect primarily the structure of our mind and its potentials rather than necessarily directly our DNA.
That does affect our DNA, but I wouldn't make magic or even science about that just yet and I'm not willing to.
We know that epigenetics happens, which means that what we believe about the world and our environmental relations has an effect on DNA of some kind.
We've basically proven it.
So believing that that makes us a religious kind of monster where we can pre-program our DNA, which isn't programmable because it's not a machine, is wrong.
That's just confused.
