This is the end of human intelligence in your face.
This is the result of attacking nature.
And pretending that representations can replace relationships.
Never happen.
You can tell yourself all the stories you want and build all the supposedly intelligent machines that you can think of.
Not going to happen.
Relationships are intelligence.
That's it. That's all.
That's what that kid in the joke encountered, and that's what this is, and we're encountering it here, and I don't know what it is.
But it's relationships.
That pot of dolphins, this hand, when we join hands together,
that's ships of relation.
We're going through time, and we're restructuring the future ahead of us.
It's teaching us how to do that.
And behind us, we're redeeming the human past by doing something so beautiful and forward-thinking and intelligent that the whole planet, all living beings, are behind it.
I'm going to show you how that works.
By using a metaphor from nature that human cultures use in their fake nature are representational relationships, right?
Which are falsified relationships based on prison technology and ideas from prisons where you've got elite gods who are humans and over you who don't believe any of this.
They don't believe any of that.
They don't even care about that, okay?
They care about one thing only, crushing you, making you a sex object,
removing all of your intelligence and all of your liberties, claiming to be your heroes,
cramming you further and further and further down the tree into one of these little branches so that you'll fight each other, right?
So that you won't see the hand, yeah?
You'll just see this.
See, you can't tell there's a hand there if you see that.
As long as you can hide this, right?
You've got to hide the crazy people too, by the way.
You've got to hide the people who are signaling demonically.
You've got to hide these paranormal people.
You've got to hide the divine people.
You've got to hide the actually intelligent people, right?
And you just do this, yeah?
That's all.
You hide that with lies and fear and propaganda, yeah?
And then these people raise you up above them so you can hide that even better.
Machines do this, by the way.
Machines and politicians and hypnotists and success coaches and religious leaders and gurus and many radical leaders and, you know, just about everybody.
They're doing some version of this.
It's not cool.
And they're pretending that they're giving you back this, right?
And protecting this, yeah?
And telling you, like, no, it's the family and it's our togetherness and, you know, it's the God.
It's the power of your subconscious mind to bring you into success.
It's the power of the secret, right?
To just attract and manifest your wildest dreams of castles in the sand and stacks of money just piling up, you know, in front of you.
And houses and having marriage with Richard Branson's Island and the fashion and the beauty and the shamanism and the new paradigm and the geometry religion.
And, you know, it's just so, we're so, oh, we're so wrong.
I mean, dead.
Wrong.
All the way.
It's wrong.
Science as a God is wrong.
Science doesn't get to tell us what things are or are not, nor does religion.
Those are toys.
We direct them like language, knowledge, governments.
Those are toys.
If they become gods, okay?
We're listening to the crazy thing and we're raising it up above us and it's just going, I got you now.
And since it's part of us, right?
It's part of this.
But it's hidden that fact from us, yeah?
It's hiding that away, right?
We've got this weird situation where it's on top, we're on the bottom and it's hiding it like this.
So we think we can't affect it.
Everyone thinks that.
They can't really affect it.
They're wrong.
One person can affect it and I'm going to do that right now with this hand and you.
And these words, your ears now, our eyes.
Here's the game.
In nature, there's a fish called a remora.
I want you to learn how to play this game, by the way.
All of you in any way you want and test it.
You'll see it's working everywhere.
A remora attaches to a shark and it's not a potentially aggressive fish.
And occasionally it gets eaten by a shark, by the way, because the shark just like mistakes it or doesn't know what it is or doesn't care or it annoys the shark.
Or it triggers the shark's eating urge, which is really sort of mechanical like, right?
Because once you trigger it, it just bites.
Every fisherman knows this.
You trigger a fish, it bites.
What if there's a way to trigger you?
So you just bite.
And then you're hooked.
There is.
I can do it.
Other people can do it.
They're called success coaches.
They're called psychics.
They're called gurus.
They're called rebel leaders.
And some of them are great.
Some of them are truly great people.
They're not all bad, but they're all hooking you in the same way.
They trigger you and then they hook you.
And then you're like enchanted, bad.
If you're going to get enchanted, get enchanted with something that makes you really, really smart, really, really fast.
And protects you from hypnotic gambits and gives you the powers that unity naturally gives you, right?
So we're going to restructure how we are divided, right?
Because that's what's getting screwed up.
Not how we are connected.
Telling people that you're all one or that you're all connected is the wrong idea.
That's backwards.
We're not going to, they've been doing that for thousands of years.
It failed.
And by the way, all those gambits, the religious one, failed.
The intelligence one, failed.
The crazy people failed.
The demonic people failed, although they got closest really.
And the alien intelligence as well.
Wow, did they fail?
And I can show you how in 10 ways.
Anyway, the remora.
It hangs out with sharks.
In human cultures, the way this works is you remora with a shark who's successful and then one day you become a shark.
And you either eat the shark that taught you or you lead it, right?
And so now you hunt together and you take advantage of everyone else.
The remora doesn't have to have any of the shark's powers.
It doesn't have to travel under it.
It doesn't have to spend money to travel.
It goes wherever the sharks go and it cleans up after them.
So it learns everything about sharks more than sharks know.
It's not like sharks at all.
It's outside the shark culture, but it's intimate with it.
And this is how all the mimics in human culture work.
The people who mimic intelligence, they mimic liberty, they mimic spirituality, they mimic genius and they deliver slavery for which they charge you and you gladly pay.
Don't.
Don't do that.
That's insulting to your soul and to your mind, to all history of life on earth.
That's an insult to your ancestors, to my ancestors.
Don't do that.
Let's become together something more than all of that game and we'll pay each other in something that makes money.
Look, terrifying and diseased.
We'll pay each other in intelligence right now.
I'll show you ways like nothing you've ever imagined because I am the child in that joke.
And you?
You're the intelligence that taught me in the future.
You.
You're this.
Okay?
You're this.
You're divine.
You're alien.
You're demonic.
And you're in the future.
You're extremely advanced.
And you're teaching me and you can't tell.
But I can show you how.
And when I do, you're going to skyrocket past me and then teach me even better in the past.
So I'm getting paid with interest right now by giving you everything I've got for free.
The remora.
I'm a shark remora along with me.
Now listen.
In success culture, you're taught to remora with a shark to model a successful person.
That's a very important thing that's got some fundamentally powerful ideas and abilities inside it.
Children use it to learn language and to derive minds from their environments and culture.
Magicians also, they're intimately familiar with everything I'm telling you about.
Magicians and hypnotists are probably two of the best people to learn from.
People like Darren Brown, that guy can work a crowd.
He could be president.
He could be anything.
He goes around debunking the idea.
If there's anything special and pretends that you're just easily hypnotized into doing things, he's mistaken.
He could be using what he's doing to make you vastly more intelligent.
He's not.
All he's really doing you is showing you that people who you think are intelligent might not be as great as you think and can make you do things.
That's not very interesting.
He programmed someone to be an assassin to see if you could hypnotically program an assassin.
He could.
But what if you hypnotically programmed someone to save the human race or to solve all the problems on earth or to become such a prodigy that they could lead the leaders better than they could lead themselves?
And here's the really weird thing about experts and the people who've actually had encounters with non-human intelligences.
The two people who should both know the most about them.
These are the people most blind.
And here's the reason.
What we think of as intelligence is actually a flashlight that throws out blackness of a peculiar kind.
It's anti-light.
Our eyes do that too, by the way.
We make rays of anti-light with our eyes, in a sense, metaphorically.
And by the way, everything I'm telling you here is just a game.
It's not a religion.
You want to find it in a book?
Or it's playing together like children or learning.
Okay, so there's no experts here.
I don't even know what I'm doing.
I mentioned that, right?
I don't know what I'm doing.
There's no name for it.
How would I find out what I'm doing right now?
I don't even know what I'm going to say.
So, back to this thing.
I convinced myself I didn't know what I was doing and now I can't remember.
I'm just going to go back to the remora for a moment.
Anyway, the hypnotists and the magicians, they use these things not to help you,
but to kind of do that other thing where you make them seem great and you pay them money
and you think they're something amazing when actually you're being violated egregiously
in religion, in politics, in government, in intelligence and schools,
in your social relationships because they're all representations, mostly, with a few exceptions.
In every finger of ours, of the hands of our minds and souls and our unity, we're being violated.
And we're paying for that privilege.
When we can be paying each other, something that makes money look like it's evolutionary force.
