And it can be expressed however you want.
I'm not going to tell you how to express it.
You'll find your own way once you start understanding and learning as yourself.
That's all.
No agenda.
No cold.
No paradigm.
It won't hurt you.
It's just a toy.
I'm just making it to play with.
I don't even know what this is.
It's actually remoras, right?
The remoras become the sharks and they learn about the sharks.
So you can use this technique.
If you find a meme that's particularly offensive, attach intelligence to it.
If you find someone who can do something really well, attach your mind to their whole universe and try and stimulate it, right?
This is how, become it.
Just like you were playing an act, just like you were an actor in a movie.
When I'm around the store, I sometimes play different roles.
When I get into the shower, I pretend I'm taking a shower as a different person each day.
Today I'm taking a shower as Joan of Arc.
What's it like?
What's in my past?
What's in my future?
What's watching off?
Play games.
Intelligence is about games that build unities and that reflect back from multiple positions on you.
Positions of your heroes.
Positions of experts.
Positions of divine people.
Positions of alien ideas and advanced science fiction motives and extreme criticisms of our intelligence in our society.
Like what we're doing here is actually science fiction.
I am being science fiction with you together right now.
So this one works really good here for that part of it.
But don't buy into the conspiracy aliens are in spaceships thing.
That's nonsense.
I'll show you something about aliens.
You'll be meeting them tomorrow and they're not going to be anything like you like or are expecting.
They're going to be something so astonishing.
You're going to forget all the human models and you're going to be like, what the hell is that?
Just like we're doing now.
As for the demonic thing, let me explain about this.
Without this, the universe would be a speck.
There'd be no space.
No division between words.
No division between tones and music.
No hot and cold.
No light and dark.
No two brain hemispheres.
No two eyes.
No two anything.
No nothing.
There'd be no space.
You'd have one solid speck.
What this is is how things get distinguished.
This is like an agent intelligence in the universe in our minds and our relationships.
It's not evil.
It's untamed.
And in the wrong hands, like ours, because we're confused, that's by it.
It makes false divisions or it falsifies connections both.
It makes false divisions that aren't real in something that's completely unified.
Fundamentally, outside of time and space, it's completely unified.
All of time, all of space, all of being one thing.
And everything here is one thing.
It's just one thing.
We make the divisions and then claim they're there.
They're not.
And this is what helps us make those divisions.
Now, this thing's untamed and it's wild and wants to ride you.
That's like if a horse came up and said, hey, I want to ride you up that mountain.
Not a good idea.
But it does it with us.
And that's why we build for it and work for it and are enslaved by it.
And this is what the mimics work for, sort of.
They work for this.
All of the mimics, even whether they're good or bad, they all sort of work for the phony.
The phony distinction thing that tells you that psychism is because we're all connected
and I have secret powers.
No.
It's because we're all one thing.
And the way that we were distinguished in our languages and cultures by thoughts is
false.
And so anyone who takes that off or changes how that connects a network of ideas, their
mind works differently.
And now, first they are one and only kind of as an afterthought they are an individual.
Right?
Well, this thing twists that around and says, no, first you're an individual and only as
an afterthought you have incredibly bizarre kinds of unity that aren't ordinary with
all modes of being and all of matter and the universe and the sky.
The stars is you.
You look up at the night sky, you're seeing the blanket of your being.
You uniquely.
So too the person next to you.
And different, you know, blankets, but the same blanket.
Different versions of that same blanket.
Perfectly unique, perfectly complete.
Each one.
Yeah.
And if there isn't, there is sort of a central body of being, you know, you have to call
it anything.
Let's forget about that.
We keep fighting over that.
Why?
I don't have to fight over me being here.
Here I am.
I don't know what you call me.
You got to call me something?
Well, if you really need to go ahead, I'm here.
You don't have to call me anything.
It won't matter what you call me much to you.
To me, if I care.
The remora.
The remora agitates the crowd, right?
Gets them all.
Anyway they want.
Doesn't matter.
You make them fighting and happy.
Anything you like.
And it makes them give them all that energy and raises them up above it, like Facebook
above you or Google above you, right?
Or artificial intelligence above you.
Computers above you.
Cell phones above you.
Automobiles cars above you.
Money above you.
Power above you.
All above you, right?
And you just pay your power and your intelligence into that and they raise them.
They raise themselves up above you and charge you more each time.
And just deprive you of yourself to violate you.
They call that education.
They call that liberation.
They call that wisdom.
You quote their words madly on every Facebook page all day long to each other.
You don't make your own.
You can't surpass them.
You're not even trying.
You don't believe you can, apparently.
Or you don't know how or you don't want to.
You've been lied to in every possible way.
You've been lied to about what your mind is.
What your body is.
What needs to be human.
What nature is.
Everything.
So we're just going to drop all of that and learn together.
That's all we're going to do with toys.
You don't have to believe anything I'm saying.
Test it for yourself.
Check it out.
Taste it.
You'll figure it out.
You'll teach me.
You are.
I told you that already.
You're teaching me.
Now here's the thing about remoras.
There's all those weird kinds, right?
There's a crazy kind.
The intelligent kind.
The divine kind.
We'll come back to that in a minute.
The weird conspiracy alien trip kind.
It has some truth in it, right?
But it's pretty confused about the models.
The models of this one, which includes the whole New Age religions are bad.
Bad models.
Very bad.
And very seductive.
And they want to give you a quick treat that then lets you think you're intelligent.
No.
If you can do more than what I've just done in this whole lecture and then just take
that and send it to me, I'll believe you about your screwy New Age religion, which I think
right now is lying to you unless it can outdo me.
I'm glad to meet you in any field of argument, debate, or mutual excellence, right?
Where we draw each other in mutual excellence.
You bring your tools.
I'll bring mine.
And we'll see which ones survive the encounter, okay?
Any tools you want.
Divine tools from God religions.
Intelligence tools from philosophy or intellect, poetry, art.
Anything you want.
You bring it and you want to have a little to do to see which of these tools are really
better to use for each other.
Let's try them out.
Because all your tools are subsets to the ones that I'm playing with.
And I want to give you the meta tools, the ones above those, just to play with them and
you'll change them.
I don't even know.
That's why I'm not even going to tell you what they are.
I don't know what they are.
They have to do with proper use of our minds in unison for great purposes.
That's what I'm going to get out here.
What's the purpose of all those people who are agitating you and then lifting themselves
up?
Well, the purpose is to deprive you, okay?
They're going to take, excuse me, they're going to take something away from you.
And they're going to have that something and make themselves big, like the Republicans
in the GOP, the Tea Party, right?
