Like the Western nations, yeah?
They make themselves big, fill up with prisons, war, extreme commerce that rapes the environment,
just wipes out the oceans, radiation, kill the whales with mapping radars, just destroy
everything and call it progress because, you know, raising the standards of living and people
are now making more money than ever and we've got healthcare in these countries where people
are starving and we're fighting disease all over.
Isn't it good to fight disease if you're not human?
In our nation?
Insurance has raped the entire population.
They made billions of dollars while we died in our homes, lost our homes, our children
were destroyed and we were not educated.
They made us purchase education.
They drove us so insane that our prisons filled up and they paid, we paid them to fill our
prisons with ourselves and children.
Seriously.
Insurance?
Liberty?
Intelligence?
Democracy?
A republic?
Does it look like a combination abattoir and gulag by chance?
Does our humanity look like scientific torture chamber where animals are mechanically injected
with pain and agony and poison to see if our products will kill us?
Suppose those are our body.
Suppose those prisoners in prisons are our minds.
What if they are our hearts?
Suppose the people we hate, the ideas that we attack, are parts of the fingers of our
own hand that, well, you know, we just don't see them because we've been so pushed to the
edge of our actual identity that my whole brain is like, you know, this fingertip now.
It's a tiny representation, demonic and obscure that has nothing to do with anything except
stories made to torture children and put them in prisons forever, charging for the privilege
and raise up idiots.
There's another game.
And the psychics know about this game and so do the magicians, so do the politicians,
but they play it for different reasons.
The psychics play the game to kind of raise them up and they're lying to you because you're
the psychic one, not them.
And there is no psychism.
That's actually, again, we've disconnected the unity in such a way of lying that we have
to make a new lie to pretend that this person over here is reconnecting it for that person.
No, they are not.
The client in the psychic-client relationship is the psychic.
The person who is hypnotized by the wealth professional who actually makes them turn
into a millionaire overnight is the wealth professional.
And that person they paid is lying about everything because they're lying about what success is.
Success is not money.
It cannot be material possessions.
Those are made of blood of living beings.
No way around it.
This is a living world.
You have to translate living beings into stacks of cash and dead futures, too, to have extreme
wealth, to own property, to drive cars, to use computers, to take photographs, okay,
to post items on news networks.
All these things require lives to be spent, dead, tortured.
Eventually, just to do what it does, America had to build a torture chamber, you see.
And before they attacked Japan with a nuclear bomb, they had to attack themselves.
Science wants to tell you that they're really great, but every animal body on Earth has been
poisoned by industrial toxins that can't be removed.
And those toxins are destroying and damaging our DNA because they're causing it to
misread the environment signals.
It's also filling us with hormones that change how gender works, which is our reproduction
system.
Our intelligence is being destroyed from the inside out by the science that was telling
us it's leading us into the future.
It's lying through its teeth, through its bloody teeth, okay.
And its teeth are bloody with our minds, our bodies, and the entire terrestrial evolutionary
history of Earth, which they claim to have discovered, excuse me, they have given us
the power to shut it off and call that knowledge and we are proceeding as planned.
Science is lethal to idiots.
And our species so far is not yet relationally intelligent.
We do not have purposive intelligence and you and I must return that now together by
remaking something more like this, a little bit, something a little bit like this, okay.
We can do it today.
We can do it even in the same ways we like to do things.
We can even do it in the really insipid ways we like to do things, but we better learn
about their dangers a lot first.
Now the mimics all agitate the crowd to get you to pay them, to lift them up above you
higher and higher and higher, and you just keep looking up and keep looking up but you
never surpass them.
There's a different game.
It's on this finger, the divine finger, so to speak, and we can remap these fingers
anytime we want.
There's no system here.
My mapping was accidental.
This divine finger, certain kinds of children are born.
Andrea Kaczyzewski, you can find on Facebook, she's a neuroscience researcher, a very
interesting woman.
She has a theory that she calls ex altruism, which means extreme altruism.
Most people sacrifice everything to lift other people, and they're like sociopaths,
and they're a little bit like psychotics except for the opposite.
Instead of wanting to see everyone explode or cut their heads off or die, they want to
see everyone rock it up into the air in beauty and intelligence and fulfillment.
They can't help it.
They need it like a drug addict needs it.
They're like, they just need it, and they need to raise other people up, and they need
to become more intelligent.
They just desperately hungry for learning and rescuing and raise the dead and change
the world, and we can do it, and they know it, and they were born to do this.
They're made to do this, and our cultures despise them.
They get shunted into one of these fingers when they don't belong there.
They're actually doing something really crazy.
They're not even doing this.
They're not here, here, here, here, here.
They're the real ones.
The real ones are here in the gap between all this, in the death, in the gap, in the
scary place, between that and the rest of reality.
What's along this wrist?
The brain of the universe, so to speak.
The eyes of the universe, so to speak.
Of time itself, so to speak.
They inhabit this position.
And from this position, they can heal or radically improve any of these people.
This is the extra altruists' location.
I'm speaking to you from this location in time and space to invite you to explore it.
You see your body is like this structure.
First, it is one.
Second, it has two aspects, unity and distinction.
Thirdly, it has a body of unity.
A purpose when noble creates super function.
Notice that this is empty.
There is nothing here.
It has to stay empty for this to be intelligent.
If I want to put something in it, hello monkey.
It has to be empty if this is already in it and I try to put something else in it.
I might be able to if it's the right shape,
but if it's the wrong shape or if I can't easily make it squish,
it's going to fall off easily and drop.
I will never be able to get it.
This is religion.
This is a paradigm.
This is a false democracy.
This is government.
This is war.
This is hatred.
This is discrimination against people who seem unique in any way at all.
This is a lie when it becomes God because then it's always in our place of unity
and we can't be ourselves.
Our unity is broken.
See that we have leaders and followers and never do they need.
The Messiah takes, so to speak, the pod hero, the true superstar,
the noble champion, male or female.
They stand here and the women are even better than men.
Women can stand in the gap much more easily than men.
Men are afraid of this.
They want to be like the point.
They want to point at you.
I'm like this.
I'm rigid.
I tell you.
They don't want to invite.
They don't want to get out of the way and then like everyone else.
They don't want to be the empty throne.
And this is the little throne next to the empty throne of the big one.
And this one's bigger.
So come here.
We'll play here together from now on, I promise you.
And we will discover things unlike anything in human history from this position.
That's how you can teach me in the future.
That's how I can teach you what you taught me from the past.
The Messiah's position depends on one important thing, your purpose.
If you have a purpose that is so beautiful in truth, not in statement, not in law,
but so beautiful in truth,
that the entire history of life on earth would be behind your purpose.
That every mother ever born would cheer wildly and say yes, please.
That every father or child of any kind would be an absolute agreement with you
and would give you their right arm to back him.
But any kind of divine intelligence that might or might not be watching
would be very pleased with this idea and even interested and shocked
that a human being came up to it, came up with this.
And an alien intelligence would say like that's truly advanced.
Let's go talk to these people.
They're not making machines.
They're making relations.
A source of intelligence.
That's interesting.
If they exist separate from us, which I'm going to show you they don't,
but they would be interested.
And so would even the demons because they'd be like,
actually they'd be retrained by it and they'd start serving you.
In other words, the distinctions would become intelligent instead of lethal.
All the distinctions.
They would heal like lightning and become intelligent.
Your demon would become the guardian angel at the hand.
And now all the ways of distinction of the one unity that is true but strange,
the ways of that distinction would become hyper intelligent
just like you and me are doing right now.
And we would tame the demon and now instead of the horse riding us
and getting bigger and bigger and bigger with every step it takes,
we will ride the horse and we will both go higher and higher and higher
with every step we all take together.
Okay?
For each other.
For each other.
My goal is to give you back everything that's been taken that I can find anywhere.
Everything.
Now free.
Free all prisoners of any kind in any kind of prison.
There used to be none.
Let's have none again and see how that works.
A lot better than what we're doing here.
