Anyway, you can tame this unintelligent part and it will serve you madly
as though it were a non-human intelligence.
So the divine will be pleased.
The aliens will be interested.
The demons will be tamed.
The insane people will be cured.
Okay?
And we can learn sorts of healing and intelligence, evolutionary leaping
that all of nature has been doing and we've shunted into ignorance,
machines, science, religion, the monkey problem.
And now, we're already up here.
Okay?
Now we're like this.
Everything's hidden.
We've got a weird leader somewhere like sticking out on the side over here or something.
Yeah?
Above us.
Can't do that.
We need to get rid of this.
Replace it with something that serves us together,
with us serving each other together.
So every move we make helps each other from now on.
Everyone.
We can do that tomorrow with the technology we have now.
It's easy.
It'll be more interesting and more exciting and more astonishing than anything we've ever built.
It'll solve our government problems.
It will end something like, it will basically end war and conflict in a short period of time
because it will unify us so quickly in intelligence.
We're going to have a hard time going backwards that way.
It will get rid of prisons.
We won't forget about police.
We won't need laws.
We're going to have cultures so intelligent that laws will be an afterthought.
They'll be useful, but they'll be frosting on the cake of our incredible progress together.
This has been the promise of our intelligence and our planet from the beginning.
We've been running in the opposite direction because we're terrified of our actual role,
which is to lead, not to follow, to lead together in pods like dolphins,
going through time and intelligence because they're the same.
When you look up at the sky, you're not seeing space.
It's not.
You're seeing intelligence.
Your mind is made of that.
It's been drawn from that blanket as if in this moment, redrawn again,
not just when you were born, one time, you know, possess it.
It's flowing.
Let's follow that flow together.
That's the Messiah's game.
They come, they go into the gap, into death.
They come back to speak to you of what you taught them in that gap,
to share it with you and lift you up above them.
Stop crucifying them.
They are your own children.
Each one of your children is this thing.
They have just come from this.
They're shining in their eyes, this.
If you only let them, they will teach you a million times more
than what I've shown you in this little bit of 90 minutes.
Infant children with no language.
They teach me these things of how to see.
It's not religion.
It's not science.
It's not politics.
It's not paradigms.
It's not the New Age.
It's not aliens and spaceships.
It's not.
It's not the Platians.
It's not conspiracy.
It's not reptilians.
It's not, it's not, it's just not.
We need to stop with this, okay?
This is a toy.
Let's use it like one.
We'll draw pictures with it and check them out and test them
and link them and play with them together naturally,
openly, freely, encouragingly, mutually,
with and for each other and our future and life on Earth.
The purpose is what makes the Messiah able to abstract
the entire intelligence of everyone around them
and magnify it into fire, into a star of intelligence
that can shine back on their friend's family.
Every family produces a star like this,
it's supposed to lead them all, right?
And every family shoots them down for the cultures
that despise them.
Raise your children up.
I'll lift you up with everything I've got.
I would, I don't need anything in return.
You've given me it all.
If you want to give something in return,
by all means please do share my work,
send a small domination if it's affordable and comfortable for you.
You can find the form on organelle.org.
But sharing my work or thinking about it and surpassing me,
discussing it, that's what I, the pay I want, please.
More than anything, that will pay everyone.
So fast we'll start paying each other so much money
we'll stop doing really ignorant things that we're doing.
We don't even know what they are yet
because we need to stop doing them long enough to find out together.
So let's do that.
We can play the remora game, but let's not become sharks.
Let's play the remora game and become pods of whales.
Because whales are immune to sharks.
Sharks stay away from whales.
A whale with a slap of the tail.
Bye bye shark. Here's the other thing.
You get a messiah around you?
The mimics freak out and they start fleeing.
Which means the people who are false, all the fashion stuff,
all of the false promises, false sexuality, false intimacy, false democracy,
false war, false prisons, false courtrooms, false law,
it just deflates and lifts you up.
Which is what it was supposed to do.
They lied. They made a trap.
With all the things that we treasure with justice, beauty, love, fellowship, communion,
intelligence, wisdom, insight, adoration, reverence, mutuality.
They made a trap.
They sucked all that out of us because we wanted it.
They stole it first and then they sucked our potentials for it out of us
and sold us back toys that break our minds and bodies and souls and liberty.
No more. You and me together from now on.
Remember to underst-
hand.
It's more in the little categories that keep trying to demand that you belong to,
reproduce, convert people to, stop converting people to things that aren't you and me.
Don't convert them to fear.
Don't convert them to quotations.
Don't convert them to gurus.
Don't convert them to psychics.
Don't convert them to members of your paradigm.
Stop converting each other.
Let's learn what we can become.
I'm with you.
Stand by me.
We're going beyond the stars.
Bye-bye for now.
