Hi, so my name is Darren Stevenson, you can find me on Facebook by that name, I'm in San
Francisco there, and this is my YouTube channel.
I want to say a few things.
The first thing is, I'm not an expert, this is in the lecture, I'm actually playing a
game with you where I talk to you in the future and you teach me right now in your past.
And there's other kinds of games we're playing within that game that I can't understand
them, I don't know how they work, I only know a little bit about how to play them.
And so, I'm not a professional, but I study professionals with the goal of generally either
surpassing them or probably shooting them, mostly because I'm very curious and I'm passionately
curious about intelligence.
So you might think of me, you've probably seen like a politician before, someone who
can really work a crowd, and they can work a crowd to lift themselves up, to get the
crowd to lift them up.
And a rock star is the same way, and a movie star is similar, but a comedian is a little
bit different.
A comedian sort of involves your intelligence in an unusual way.
A comedian is really kind of a closet revolutionary, and I'm not a comedian, but what I like to
do is this weird game where I lift you up in the future, as high as I possibly can, and
somehow in the past you lift me up way higher than I could ever go.
Now in order to do that, I have to get very low right now and not be an expert and not
know what I'm doing.
I have to kind of trust you.
And there's this very strange quality to this game, which I want to kind of tell you a joke
about.
And the joke goes like this.
And it's really complex because the joke changes every time I try to tell it.
And so it's not really a joke.
It's actually, yeah, I don't even know what to call it, which is interesting.
You'll see why in a second.
So I want to see this kid, and he was really, really curious.
And he'd heard about UFOs and the idea that there might be other intelligences of kinds
we don't even know about, which of course, by the way, religion is actually the idea
that there are other intelligences.
They've spun that idea in a way that is very confusing.
And I think mostly wrong.
But there are other intelligences.
That's a fact.
And we don't need science or religion to authorize us, you and me, to explore that right now
without machines and to verify that together in our lives experience and in ways we can
test easily.
We can demonstrate them.
And we don't need science for that.
And we don't need religion.
And we don't even, we don't need gurus.
We don't need books.
We don't need leaders.
We don't need me.
We don't need any framework.
We come complete with everything we need to do that.
If we would just let that happen, it would.
But anyway, I knew this kid was very curious.
And he believed that it was at least possible that he might be able to one day stand face
to face with some other form of intelligence.
And he didn't need to know what kind, although the stories all around him convinced him,
like everyone else, that there were only really three kinds.
Our kind, because there's no other kind like us on earth, apparently.
And then two kinds of sky kinds of intelligence.
The first one is aliens.
Theoretically, these are modeled.
People who fly around in machines and communicate with machines, which everyone can see aren't
fast enough to do any of the things that aliens would do with them.
Strangely, there is something fast enough to do all those things, like fly through,
you know, space faster than light and stuff like that.
But we don't believe that it's that kind of thing.
We don't believe that you can fly with it, for example, or that it travels.
There's that kind of thing all around us.
In fact, I'm talking out of it right now, in a sense, in more senses than one.
So it's really curious, kid, at least believed it was possible that you could be either like
the alien sky intelligence or the religious sky intelligences.
And of course, the religious people say there's also like a very scary like intelligence somewhere
underneath everything that will get you and is trying to get you and wants you and was
and is always mimicking things.
It's like pretending to be good and pretending to be holy and it's pretending to be science.
It's pretending to be biology and understanding and evolutionary theory and it's pretending
to be the new age and it's pretending to be psychism.
It's a pretending, pretending, pretending monster that's everywhere and it's going to
get you.
It's in the belt of people, you know, and only only certain book ideas.
If you announce that you believe them and then sort of somehow do something with your
heart, I had the wrong side because I don't even understand how they could think that
this works.
But you save some things out of a book that has to do with particular words in particular
languages on earth in particular times.
And then you supposedly do certain things in your heart and then the monster can't get
you and you get eternal life and virgin princesses love you in heaven forever.
I don't know what happens to the virgin princesses where they just get to be what the shadows
of the guys who sinned like crazy on earth but said the book things and then had the
heart.
No, something's all weird about that.
I'm sorry.
The whole book people thing is a hypnosis gig and I'm going to lay that out to you right
here as we play along.
But this kid was really, really curious.
He thought I can either meet the like downstairs intelligences or the upstairs intelligences
or the alien intelligences or some way I can do it.
I might need machines.
I don't know what I need, but it can happen.
I knew this kid and he was crazy about this idea.
He was so crazy that he just kept trying to learn everything like and he just thought
he could learn anything and people say you can't learn that.
He would learn it and surpass them and they would say you can't do that.
You're an expert and he would learn it and surpass them.
I just went on like this and everybody didn't really like this kid too much.
He had a few close friends, but they felt threatened because he could outperform them
and he didn't understand and they didn't understand.
It was a big mess.
Then one day out of the blue, unexpectedly, it happened.
He met an intelligence that was verifiably intelligent, much more intelligent than
anything he'd ever seen in any book in all of books.
And it definitely at least didn't seem to be human, not in any sense he could understand.
And it could prove things.
And even having a brief conversation with it of say two seconds, in that two
seconds, this kid learned more than in any 20 years of his life studying anything in
person and this kid could learn fast in any environment, no matter how bad or good
he could learn like crazy.
So when he met an intelligence that taught him in a few seconds in ways he
couldn't even understand, more than he had learned in 20 years of his passionately
inflamed study.
And these things that he learned were translatable into human ideas and they could
be shared with other people who were interested and they could be tested and
they were astonishingly advanced and they weren't channeling and it was confusing.
So he couldn't actually tell whether at first, whether it was himself going crazy,
right?
Because that would be, of course, everybody on earth would say, well, this child was
insane to begin with, poor little guy.
He's just full of fantasies.
He's very imaginative, but it's just his imagination, right?
There's no public, there's no public science about this.
No one, you can't prove it objectively, right?
I mean, come on, you can't, you know, you don't really believe this guy.
He's just, he's having a little bit of, he's very creative.
Okay.
He's a nice guy.
He's pretty smart.
He's, you know, he's an artistic guy.
Artistic, bear that word in mind for later.
And thank you for teaching me all this, by the way.
I really appreciate your participation because without you, I can't learn this
way and I don't know what I'm talking about.
I'm not an expert.
I don't even know the joke I'm telling.
So you're telling me it as I go along, discovering it by you helping me.
Thanks.
That's a really interesting way of working with together.
So when he, when he discovered this experience, he didn't know if it was him,
right?
Is this my own genius or have I gone crazy?
Those are two real options.
Got to hold those up pretty high because if, if it, if it was happening to me,
why didn't happen to everyone else?
Why would it be him?
You know, why, why would it be now wherever this was?
Why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why can't he just run
up and save the world if that's true?
Why, why can't he just invent free energy and a million little lies?
Each of which he could answer this kid because I asked him a bunch of them.
Can you answer this?
You, can you, can you answer any of these challenges?
He said, yes, I can answer all of them and he answered a few of them.
He can answer them.
What's the joke?
So he couldn't really tell if he was insane, if he was becoming a genius,
which was inexplicable.
Why would that suddenly happen?
Or if he was actually in contact with some other kind of intelligence,
we don't even know what kind.
And the weird thing was it seemed both, it seemed like all three kinds and other
kinds we don't even, we've never even imagined.
So it seemed like the space alien kind sort of to him.
And it seemed like the, um, the divine kind, uh, to him.
And it also seemed like the underneath weird, crazy mimic kind all at once.
It was all those kinds and, and, and, and it wouldn't really say which one, right?
It just, it's all kinds.
In fact, it was all the kinds.
Um, it was the humankind.
It was the animal kind, the water kind, the light kind, the sun kind, the moon kind.
It was all the kinds.
So the problem that this kid then had was what, what was it?
It didn't fit in any one.
And everyone wanted to know, well, what is it?
You know, are you crazy?
Are you intel?
Do you have intelligence?
Do you have a connection with something alien, something divine or something demonic?
Right.
It's a pretty simple set of ideas, right?
Are you nuts?
Are you very smart?
Is it divine?
Is it alien and advanced to mechanical?
Cause all the alien intelligence, as we tend to think about it or like that,
advanced to mechanical.
Is it demonic?
That's it.
Crazy, smart, divine, alien.
Demonic.
See how interestingly these all go on this one hand, which also weirdly includes
things like nature, the sun, the moon, language, time, space, the universe, stars.
And then this has a wrist really weirdly, which connects this whole structure, both
sides, which is a one, it's like a unity side.
