There's something weird about that.
DNA is programmed by our environmental relations primarily.
So we would have to change how we relate with the environment if we want to change the expression of our DNA and it's not programming.
You can stop using that word.
To pretend that organisms are like machines is like pretending that the Sun is like a match book and then believing that.
Don't do it.
You're not like a computer.
You don't get downloads from the sky.
What does happen is wave intelligence that's highly compressed can enter you and it seems like a download idea because it uncompresses inside you in waves and stuff like that.
Wave intelligence from nature is actually the source of our intelligence.
It's how we got intelligent, right?
And we don't possess it.
We receive it.
So you wipe out nature.
We're going to stop being intelligent.
That's happening already, by the way.
In fact, that's why I can say this because I talk with and for all the living beings, I have a purpose that's different from the hypnotists and the gurus and the authors and even the magical, beautiful people, the saints and everything.
I have a different purpose.
My purpose is to get my people and all of the people to have a chance to learn what intelligence might be without me telling them.
But by showing each other and remembering, re-membering, right?
Re-configuring what distinguishes us, not what connects us.
Re-configuring what distinguishes us from a transcendental unity that we can experience directly right now and you and I are experiencing it right now.
This is part of that.
Do you want to prove this is the proof?
Wait and see where I go.
And if I don't go somewhere amazing, then you can call me back and say, you know what?
You didn't prove anything to me.
I will.
Now I'm going to demonstrate a little thing.
You'll like it.
Hypnotists use it.
Success coaches use it.
Psychics use it.
Politicians use it.
Radical, rebellious leaders use it.
Think Jesus Christ, Joan of Arc.
Think Subcomandante, Marcos.
Think Alexander.
Think Hypatia of Alexandria.
Think Susan B. Anthony.
Think the most amazing actual psychic that exists on earth or ever did.
They knew about this and they might not have known how to say it and they didn't usually give it away.
It was considered to be dangerous.
I think it's much more dangerous to be ignorant so now it's time to spin the tables.
Give you the powers for free because they come from you in the first place.
That's the fact.
All of the powers.
We don't have to name them.
Are they insane?
Are they genius?
Are they divine?
Are they alien?
Are they demonic?
No, they're all five like our hands.
Which one do you want?
Do you want just one finger on your mind?
Then go ahead and pick.
Be my guest.
Everyone else did.
They said like the kid was insane.
He's just very imaginative or a combination of he's partly insane and he's partly intelligent and that just makes nothing.
What?
That's how you put that critique together by the way, by being partly insane and partly intelligent.
The way that you got to that critique of the child was nuts was by doing that.
So to say that that's nothing, you're confused.
And then some people said, well no, it's that plus demons from hell and he's a monster.
We've seen kind of insane people that seem like that but they're not.
I can tell you not only how insane people got insane but how to fix them like that.
Same thing with criminals.
Not a problem.
And even broken people of every kind can be fixed because the society told them to be one thing.
So they went, okay, I'll be broken.
Or okay, I'll be intelligent.
Or okay, I'll be a priest.
Or okay, I'll be an alien contact research psychic.
Or I'll be a chaos magician demon, demonic intelligence guy.
Can we just be together?
Wouldn't that be easier?
Then we get to use all the intelligences and we don't have to amputate any.
This one doesn't have to yell at that one.
It doesn't have to pretend that this one, you know, is everyone.
And it doesn't have to this intelligence guy doesn't have to attack God doesn't have to attack aliens doesn't have to attack demons doesn't have to attack crazy people.
And it can just use these to become more intelligent.
Does that sound religious, ridiculous, dogmatic, like I'm aggrandizing myself or I want you to pay me like I'm hypnotizing you.
What I'm trying to do is I'm trying to reconfigure everything.
They said you were all connected they lied.
You are one thing you are all disconnected in different ways by what you think you know.
And when you don't know things, you become what I would like to just playfully call transcendent.
So nature raised humans up to sentience.
We started attacking them, which made us stupid.
Okay, you can't raise up what's attacking you how you're going to do that.
And by the way, Jesus that radical, possibly mythical, amazingly messianic guy a long time ago, he said this thing he said, you know, kingdom can't stand when divided.
You'll do greater works than me.
He said things like don't judge ever because you'll be judged right if you pretend you're one of these then you become one of these and this goes away and this is the kingdom of heaven and every child has it.
He said, listen, you know, follow those little children, a little child will lead them.
This is the where the little child lives.
Listen, my heart, he's in your heart.
Little child is here.
Let's not forget.
Let's not pretend.
Let's not think our books and our holy religions are I dolls are I dolls, which we're not supposed to really have.
We shouldn't put them before each other.
Let's not pretend that they're sacred and kill each other our future and our intelligence with them.
We need this and more and more.
See, what's this?
Because if this is insanity and this is intelligence, this might be prodigy like Einstein or Goodle.
And if this is this is insanity, this is prodigy.
If this is intelligence, this is its superposition, which we don't even know what that is, but it's comprised of these three things.
God, the ideas about the paranormal and aliens and psychics and blah, blah, blah and demonic things, things we think of as these three things in one up here.
That leaves three more that we don't even know what they are.
And these down here, these are sub-positions.
You don't want to inhabit a sub-position of a sub-position of a sub-position of a superposition.
You don't want to do that.
Don't keep driving yourself down the tree.
Drive yourself back into unity, like a dolphin pod swimming through and flowing over one another in unison and learning like a song together in the future in the past and in the present
in ways that establish the future ahead of them, inform and restructure the past and heal it behind them and turn the present into prodigy, unthinkable.
Now, here's what I'm going to teach you.
I study hypnotists because I study intelligence.
I'm an intelligence artist, you might say.
You know how a con man works?
A con man rips you off, right?
They figure out what your weaknesses are and they option those to take your everything.
And a virus works similarly, right?
It figures out what the weaknesses in your computer is.
It infects that.
It gets your identity credentials and it compromises them.
I'm going to do exactly the opposite thing, okay?
That's my goal.
And I don't even know what I'm doing.
I'm not a professional here.
I'm just playing around.
We're just like kids playing a game.
But let's play this game because it's a really interesting idea.
I'm going to do the opposite.
I'm going to get ahold of your identity credentials and give them back to you.
Whoops.
See, you were in one of these.
I'm going to put you back here where you don't have to be one of these ever again.
And you can play with the full hand.
Wouldn't that be nice?
Up here too.
And in your heart too.
In your eye.
How you see.
How you understand.
It will grow.
It will explode like flowers in ways I can't predict.
In ways I know nothing about.
I'm not going to tell you why.
I don't know why.
I just know that we are.
The kid never found out what that was.
In fact, every time he water-fied it, it leapt way above that.
He went like, oh, gosh, it wasn't that.
And then he water-fied it again and went way above that.
He was like, oh, it wasn't that.
It's the thing that's so interesting.
It doesn't matter what it is.
It's not a demon, though.
I promised you that.
It's not a bad thing.
You can tell by its motives.
Its purpose is what moves it makes.
It's not bad.
Same way an infant knows, right?
You caress and feed it.
You know, you love.
If you pretend you're going to caress it and sort of tap it and aren't nice,
it knows you're faking.
All beings are like this.
You don't have to have a law.
If you have to have a law, you're too confused.
Laws aren't going to help you.
You should have a culture that's so beautiful that you barely need laws.
Then laws can be useful.
If you have a culture that's so tortured that it's made of laws, you're done.
You're in prison.
And that's where we live.
We've been there for...
Well, we've been there for billions of lifetimes.
Because right now, on Earth, one transit around the sun,
seven billion human life years.
Or more.
One year.
Seven billion.
We can't afford to be confused anymore.
There's too many people at stake.
One year, seven billion people suffer the repercussions of our stupidity,
our pride, what we call religion,
what we pretend is intelligence.
You know what?
Thumbs up, homo sapiens.
You're the single most ignorant species in the entire history of life on Earth.
Nothing's ever been as dumb as you.
Nothing's ever been more proud.
That's a recipe for, first, homicide, murder.
And then, suicide, you kill yourself.
And while you're doing that, omniside.
This attacks everything that moves, most of what doesn't.
It lets itself God and blames the victims.
