And I was, when I got involved with her, I got disfellowshipped as a Joe's witness because
of having sex after marriage.
Same basic things as communicated, right?
Yeah.
Same thing.
Exactly.
But she exposed me at the age of 25, 26.
She exposed me to Grateful Dead, drugs, alcohol, traveling, going to different places, doing
things, camping, all this stuff.
I mean, my first wife exposed me to camping too, but this girl did it a different way.
We went to a lot of, like, pork roasts, pig roasts, and things like that.
It was a great life, you know, listening to Neil Young and the Woods with these guys.
Wow.
It was a really great experience.
So that was a big pink Floyd and stuff like that.
It was Led Zeppelin.
All of that was brand new to me.
Wow.
You know?
I'd never heard it before.
Yeah.
And so that was a major change in my life.
What was that?
Still no African relationship.
There was no experience there.
With the exception of, so my mom dated a person after my father died, Ed Pupampu, a very famous
chief from Ghana.
He would come over to the house often.
And I would see him play the drums and then a speech on the beach, you know?
So there was Ed, and then there was Joseph Kwanza, another Ghanaian.
He was in Joe's witness.
He exposed me to Bob Marley.
Big mistake.
He's an elder.
He has a Joe's witness to this day, you know?
But he exposed me to Bob Marley and Peter Tosh and all of that stuff and ground that stew
and wearing frugu, you know?
And wearing African traditional clothes.
Yeah.
And Banku, you know, which was extremely important.
My mom used to make Banku, but he really showed me Banku.
It's a cornmeal mush that's in a ball and you have it with the boiled chicken.
It's really, really delicious.
Wow.
Yeah.
And so all of that stuff, those were gems for me that I was collecting as I was growing
up.
And then, you know, 26, I think around between 26 and 29, I met my next life.
And she was a French Canadian, really, really pretty young girl.
And she was a Joe's witness.
But that allowed me to get reinstated so I can, if I married her, right?
I got reinstated and was able to speak to my mom again after like four years.
Yeah.
So we did that.
And to this day, I still love her.
She was really special.
But I couldn't do the Joe's witness thing anymore.
The more I grew away from that, the more I grew away from her and everything about that
thing.
So I left her.
Yeah.
And yeah, so that's 26.
When I left her, I got involved with an African American girlfriend ever.
She caught me by surprise.
She chased me down.
But she did it in such a cute way.
It was during a snow storm and she was saying that she was out of heat and needed help.
It was fireplace wouldn't work.
And I had to drive through a snowstorm to get there.
She just wanted me cold.
I almost lost my life because of sliding down these hills and things in a VW bus.
Is there something good waiting at the end of that drive?
I know.
It is in a tunnel.
But she exposed me to Malcolm X and Martin Luther King, mostly the Malcolm X side.
She's the one that encouraged me to go to the Million Man March with the Five Percenters,
which were Malcolm X's defense team.
I got a chance to ride on a bus with them and go to the Million Man March for Farrakhan
at the time.
And getting exposed to more African American books about our culture and stuff like that.
A lot of it I didn't completely understand at the time, still.
Because I kept thinking, okay, well that's African American, yeah.
But I want to know where it's from.
I want to know what, you know, I want it to keep going.
Where's the origin?
Yeah.
And it was right around that time when I found Malidoma's book.
Malidoma Samay's book of Water and Spirit.
And I couldn't put that book down.
I couldn't put that book down.
1998, 1997, 1998.
I was ready to leave everything behind and find him.
I didn't know where he was.
But I wanted to find him.
I knew it was in San Francisco, California, something on the back of his book, right?
So I painted some houses and did some work.
I got a chance to work with some Tibetan monks building walls, stone walls.
They worked all day all night, non-stop, never took a break carrying stones.
Where was this?
In New Hampshire.
I'm sorry, in Vermont.
Yeah, at a friend of mine's house.
Just, you know, not really heavy stones, but it was constant, constant non-stop.
The nuns were there too.
Never took a break.
The girls never took a break.
So all of that was like, those were gems that were added.
Feeding years.
Yeah.
The soup is getting enriched.
Yeah.
The soup here, a little bit there.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
And then some may.
Yeah, then some may.
So I felt like I was getting that woke thing.
Right?
Or, oh, this makes sense now.
Now I know why they didn't have a navel.
They didn't exist.
Right there.
It was like a dawning for me, you know.
In the stories of what happened in Maladoma, a lot of it was very similar to me in different
ways, but very similar process of getting initiated into understanding, you know.
And so it was, it was a trying point.
Well, say some more about that.
Yep.
What was it about his experiences, if you can help, help me understand what resonated
and with what it resonated in your experience.
Like obviously you had this very shocking experience.
Yeah.
When you scared your mother, silly, as a child, where you actually saw dead people coming
in, you know, the room.
Yeah.
And you saw them.
Yeah.
Right?
So did you have other experiences on your own before you, before you encounter Maladoma?
Just walk us through a couple of the things that may have happened to you that were unique
to you and made you have questions, anything you care to share.
There was nothing that can top that one.
There was nothing strong.
Yeah.
That was, maybe I was seven or eight years old when that happened.
Somewhere between five and eight, somewhere like that.
But nothing, nothing, nothing has happened like that since.
Any non-ordinary experiences at all?
Nothing that I can't explain or might have been my imagination.
I mean, that last bit's a little rough because what isn't our imagination actually, right?
Yeah.
Even with the people coming in.
Yeah.
You believe though that that wasn't your imagination.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, I can't help it.
That was just a kid.
Sure.
But it was just as real as talking to you right here.
Yeah, I believe.
And in Africa there were things that happened.
Yes, yes.
We'll get to some of that.
You identified with something deep in Mollie Dome.
Like I myself had a kind of a vaguely similar experience around the same time.
98, 99, 97 to maybe 2000, I was reading Carlos Castaneda's work.
Oh yeah.
And I was, this made sense to a part of me that had never really had a voice.
Yeah.
Right?
In my life.
And there were certain specific suspicions and questions that I had held throughout
my life that when I encountered Castaneda, boom.
Yeah.
It's like, maybe I should just go to South America and find, you know, or find Castaneda.
So the person that was working with the Tibetans, building the snow wall on his property, he
was a follower of Castaneda.
Yeah.
So he introduced me to Carlos and I read a lot of those books.
One of the things that really caught me was when they was talking about the Native Americans
having to apologize to the trees before cutting them down.
And that was like so beautiful.
And that was one of the things that Monodoma's book that I understood was that the trees
being alive.
I understood this too.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like living beings.
So yes.
Yeah.
Not just living beings, but almost like living beings who are doorways.
Yes.
And they travel.
Right.
They travel.
And they are a traveling way.
Yes.
And this kind of thing.
And they can instantly connect with other.
