Welcome everybody, I'm here with my dear friend Mark Kevin Charlton Davis and today we're
going to be talking about his experiences with indigenous spiritual traditions in Africa
and how he initially became interested in and exposed to some of those traditions.
So I'm so grateful to have you.
Oh, thank you.
What a privilege.
Love you so much.
I love you too.
Bye bye.
And I initially encountered you during an experience that I was having where I was going to a little
shop outside of Piedmont that had some indigenous African spiritual tradition literature and
herbs and materials and I came across your book Thoughts from the Underworld then and
I bought this book at that store and I was blown away.
By the way, this is a picture of Mark around the time when he wrote this book and I was
just blown away and I thought I would love to meet this man and learn with him and understand
where his insights came from.
And then there was a time when I almost met you at the Oakland flea market, failed that
time and then some years later one of my friends ended up bringing you to my house and that's
how we finally at last met.
So I want to ask you a little bit about your childhood, your family situation, what your
religious exposure as a child, anything you want to share about that?
Oh, yes.
My mother is my primary example of spirituality for me.
I think my first word that I learned when I was a baby was Taurus and she taught me
about horoscopes and things like that but she was primarily involved with anything to
do with like, there was the African American politics happening at that time, we were in
Santa Monica and so there was a lot of black power stuff, she had the Afro and she was
expressing herself as a guitarist, a solo guitarist at the time and that experience was kind
of overwhelming for me.
My father died when I was four years old, he was killed in a car accident and that day
I relived that day almost every day, I can remember that experience, it's a constant.
I think that's probably my primary driver for wanting to go to Africa and reconnect
with those links and find out what is an African American, what is an African.
My father was from Guyana but what is that, what does that really mean?
So I wanted to explore all of those things since I was young.
Your mother was a very powerful, creative and from what I understand an extremely intelligent
woman.
That's my consensus.
Yeah, she was also very beautiful.
I wish I could have matched her in some way with some of my mates because she was very
beautiful and very intelligent and also really funny.
She used to close kitchen cabinets for their feet, the top cabinets.
She would do crazy things and she had a bullwinkle voice.
There's always a copying bullwinkle, you know, cartoons, yeah, but we had a lot of
seances at our house, we had Haitian priestesses that would come over and there were some really
weird childhood experiences I've had around that with my mom being a part of it.
Anything you'd like to share about one of those experiences?
Yeah, one that stands out is this is after my father died, maybe about a year or so after.
These people all came over, you know, sorry, let me retract, the priestess came over.
Now she's like almost a homeless person, sometimes we'd see her on the street, I could never
figure out who or what she was, but she was a priestess, right?
And so she came over and so when she came, my sister and I, we both hid under the couch
and watched the whole thing from the couch, underneath the couch.
I don't know how many hours, I didn't know time at the time, but I remember my sister
falling asleep, I stayed awake and I watched and then suddenly like the door opened and
a bunch of people came in and one of them was my dad who had already passed away, but
only the top half of them, the bottom half was missing and they all came and sat down
on the couch where we were right underneath, you know, so I remember the legs and I remember
the other chairs and people sitting over there and they were talking and then they left.
And I never connected with my mom, I wish she stayed alive long enough for me to have
this conversation, but I wish I could have talked to her more about that because shortly
after that she was so frightened that she dove into Christianity and became a Jehovah's
Witness. And so completely shut down on any of those conversations. So as a kid I never
talked about it and as an adult I wanted to but couldn't, you know, but that was a very
deep experience.
I mean with whom could you explore these things if not your mother yourself, right?
As a witness too.
Yeah, yeah. So do you think that would be unexposed to the Jehovah's Witnesses?
I did.
Have you raised in that faith?
Yeah, from the time I was about eight or nine, mostly nine probably, we started with that.
They had their religious people come to our house a couple of times a week to train us
on the Bible, learn all of the Bible books by heart, scriptures, I still remember them
because they really drill it hard into you, you know.
Wow, the whole Bible?
Yeah, the books, the names of the books and also the several scriptures.
Sure, sure.
But mostly just the names of the books. That's a kid, right?
I'm just going to make a quick adjustment here.
Please feel free to continue.
Okay.
So when, how, describe the transition between the time you began to become a Jehovah's
Witness and what happens next in your life?
Yeah, that's it.
So the ladies that came in our house, they were really nice ladies.
I'll never forget them, right? Three ladies.
I mean, the religions convincing them you have nothing else to go with.
Absolutely, yeah.
And they throw the fear into you that you're going to die if you don't do it.
So, you know, when you're nine years old or 10 years old, you just follow.
Yeah, it's very weaponized, right, against star vulnerable feelings.
Yeah.
And my mom, I mean, we, when she left California after that seance to move to South Carolina
and we were there for about a year and then we moved up to New England.
But the reason for her leaving was because of that seance, but she left everything behind
all of our clothes, all of our books.
There was no packing.
Wow.
She just ran to the airport.
Wow.
You know, so it was traumatic for us because I had a Dr. Seuss collection of books, you
know, and it's still traumatic for me missing those books, you know, so that was replaced
with the Bible by the time he landed in Massachusetts.
And so I studied the Bible really hard.
That was my book.
And about what age did things start to veer away from Christianity for you?
Um, 15 years old.
And what?
Yeah.
Talk about that transition.
Yeah.
Okay.
So by the time I was 15, I was really involved in the discoverers, world discoverers and
all the different, you know, gospel to gamma, Magellan and Columbus and all the different
ones, right?
And so I wanted to, you know, every time they talked about the natives, I wanted to know
more about the natives, you know?
Fortunately, white guys are writing all these books.
Yeah.
The natives are dying left and right.
Yeah, right.
Christianity.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, you know, I was 15 years old and I designed a necklace with fake sharks, sharks teeth
made out of balsa wood and painted them white, you know, and.
That's funny because I had a shark teeth necklace around 13.
It was really important.
Like Jaws was going on.
Oh yeah.
Right.
15 page report on sharks with drawings and species and blah, blah, blah.
So you got this necklace.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, you know, I carved it out of balsa wood, used primer paint to make it white and it
went to school and it caused so much controversy that it's, I started feeding off the controversy.
Either people making fun of it or teachers telling me I can't be wearing that and all
of this stuff and it was like, you know, this is cool.
So, that kind of, that was probably one of my first points of an intersection in the
road, roads trajectory.
Now, you're almost saying that negative attention was better than none.
Yeah.
Am I getting that wrong?
I think you're correct because the attention, the none attention was like being, just conforming
to what I'm learning and there was no varying, there was no dating allowed and I was really
girls were discovering me and I didn't know what that was, you know, so I had to, I kind
of dove down into a shell, you know, and a couple of times that I tried to express myself
to a girl, didn't work out too well, you know, there was a girl from Iran and I think I wrote
a letter of love or something to her and she did, I mean, we were friends.
I thought that meant something and he had to be friends and it means that, you know,
so that was my first lesson there.
I had so much trouble.
I would write, I would make up a code and then give the girl the key to the code and then
write her a letter in the code.
I was trying to do encryption when I was nine.
Oh, well.
I was trying to do encrypt our love letters.
Really?
Yeah.
Yeah.
You were a smart girl.
Yeah.
But, you know, the girls kind of looked at me like, what is this about?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I get it though.
So, rebellion.
Yeah.
The rebellion kind of started.
I started getting, there was no information on Africa, you know, but back then World Book
and Psychopedia, you know, it showed a Caucasian face where the, you know, took up third of
the page and then every other race was at the bottom of the page in these little, you
know, jungle book looking little figures.
Right.
You know what I mean?
And I just wanted to understand more about Africa.
Couldn't find Hardy in my little school.
My area was Chickpea, Massachusetts.
Wow.
And Chickpeas outside of Springfield, really small, right?
Couldn't find anything.
But, you know, I would find a lot of Tahitians and the Maori people and Hawaiians and things
like that.
I started adapting those cultures into my own because it was close enough.
So, I kind of went with that.
And, you know, when I started learning about kahunas and, you know, the power of the gods,
you know, and how the gods were actual elements, not actual, not separate little ghosts or
spirits.
That was my first introduction.
Actually, I think it was reading Captain Cook's books.
I mean, that, you know, information from Captain Cook.
And, you know, also Paul Gauguin married a girl, Teha Amana.
Amana means power.
Right.
And listening to her story, even though she was just a little girl when he met her, you
know.
But listening, you know, I tried to glean from wherever I could find these little points
of native spirituality.
And that started forcing me to make some decisions.
