You're experiencing the relationships, the situations, the exchanges, and so forth, the transformations.
You're not thinking about them.
If you start thinking about them, you're going to wake up.
And if you think about them very gently, you will then realize you are dreaming.
As I did the other night when I found myself in my dad's father's garage, and I knew that this was impossible because the house has been sold,
and those objects that I were seeing had all been disposed of.
I knew, like, okay, right now I'm seeing something that it can't be true.
It can't be there.
I'm definitely not seeing what I'm actually where I am, right?
And so what I suspect very strongly, and I think that this experience is directly accessible to us, is that when the ancients looked at the sky,
it was a bit like diving into the water of originary transcendents.
And this is why they revered it.
He knows hotels and warm cafes. He knows everyone.
I love it when I see... I mean, I guess I just love being itself, but I love the animated...
when I see animated enthusiastic conversation among human companions.
So yeah, I think when they looked up, they left the world.
They had a participatory experience of a transcendental kind of a living water, right?
And it wasn't an accident that they likened the sky to an ocean.
That wasn't superstition.
It's true. If you just go upscale one scale, like one ladder rung from the world, the sky is transcendental.
It is like water. It's filled with islands.
There are stars. There are planets.
But you don't have to know anything abstract at all.
You don't have to know those are stars and planets.
You don't need any of that.
You can actually just dive into the water.
And I've had experiences that border on this when I was very young and I looked up at the sky
before I had been trained to think abstractly about what up means, what is up, what the sky is,
what space is, what planets and stars are, what celestial phenomena are.
I'm watching a turtle swimming in a pond with some carp that are all sunning themselves in the heat of the day.
And I strongly suspect that spacetime is much more like this lake than a void populated with objects.
It is a transcendental medium populated with transcendental phenomena.
And in case you don't believe me, just take a look at the photographs of that stuff.
Take a look at Jupiter. Does that look like an ordinary thing to you?
Take a look at the star birth nebula or the crab nebula or the butterfly nebula or a quasar or a pulsar.
Do you think those are ordinary material phenomena?
Really? Where did you get that idea?
Because they sure don't look that way to me and neither does the moon nor the sun.
I admit that the moon looks desert-like and bereft of what we would think of as vitalistic phenomena.
It kind of looks like what it actually reminds me of is something like the idea of the extremely elder, brilliant, rich crone.
But I definitely do think of the moon as feminine and the sun as masculine.
I'm capable of inverting those perspectives.
And I know that there are cohorts of moderns who would want to take me to task for thinking that there's anything like binary gender.
Be my guests. Let's have at it.
I'm going to stay on the side of binary gender.
And beyond that, again, this isn't one thing mined because I don't think there's merely binary gender.
I just think that conceptually, symbolically, and metaphysically, the concept of binary gender is crucially important and not to be disposed of for political or ideological purposes.
Expanded? Sure.
And possibly even contradicted for specific purposes.
But I want, in my cosmology, binary gender is actual.
It's not the only game in town, but it's real enough.
And again, you know, in...
Alright, somebody's counting and it's fucking up my mind.
We can have a number of different templates, but I'm not going to dispose of the one that seems to me foundational.
And in Blackfoot, I would be surprised if the concept of gender is merely binary.
I did have some discussions with Ryan about this a long time ago.
I think there's an essay on my medium page regarding this.
But it's not my goal to explore that particular topic here.
Rather, I'm trying to say something about the character...
My experience of the character and influence and profundity, and perhaps even facundity of the moon, which I do think of as feminine.
And I also think of the Earth as feminine.
You know, if you ask me, like, well, why would you do that?
Because the Earth appears to generate children.
And in my private cosmology, which I'm not trying to convince anyone of,
I'm not asking anyone else to believe or think the same way I do about these topics.
If it's useful, entertain it. If it's not, do as you will.
So the Earth is sort of, in my weird cosmology, an ever-virginal mother that generates infinite kinds of children.
And by the magical fertilization of the sun and time space.
So it lives in a kind of ocean, floats in the ocean, like a big bathtub,
orbited by the moon, who is sort of a fairy godmother in this cosmology.
And we can have more than one.
Fertilized by the rays of light originating in the sun,
which actually probably originates somewhere else than the sun,
and the sun is an expression of this property or potential...
Excuse me.
...of originary and fertilizing power.
Again, I'm not asking anyone to adopt my cosmology.
But this is how I usually prefer to think,
unless I am entertaining another perspective for purposes of conversation or exploration.
And look, I didn't invent this cosmology.
This is a cosmology that was transmitted to me.
And this is the reason why I find it compelling.
Because it wasn't invented by humans.
It's a knowledge way that comes from non-humans.
And it wasn't explicitly delineated in the way language makes it sound.
Rather, it was suggested as a useful perspective to entertain.
So is the earth a thing?
Well, in language, you can think of it that way.
It's going to be unfortunate.
The repercussions that will happen if you believe that.
That it's just an object.
But in English language, sure.
As you approach the direction of conceptual correspondence with the real, the beautiful, or the true,
it quickly becomes impossible that the earth is a thing.
It becomes quickly impossible that the earth is not at least a being,
and probably something transcendental to beings,
that produces beings perhaps as a kind of side effect
of its nature, identity, relations, and activity
in a multi-layered universe that's quite different
from our relatively mechanistic suppositions about time-space.
Because in the actual universe, everything is more than merely alive.
And we don't have, if there's a concept in English for more than merely alive,
I'd love to know what that is.
The only word I can easily locate in my vocabulary is transcendental,
but that doesn't tell you that it's more than merely alive.
You can say the word spiritual, this just leads to a bunch of confusion,
because there's this kind of weird property dualism that arises in the...
in the sequelae of supposing that there are spirits, or souls.
And whatever's actually going on doesn't seem property dualistic to me.
I can't say what it does seem, primarily because our fucking catalog of categories
is missing fundamentally crucial position, like tags.
For example, a tag that means more than merely alive,
but for generative of beings' life and minds,
actively holy, or actively divine,
originary, we need some placeholders for these kinds of things,
these kinds of qualities, characteristics.
But even the idea of characteristics, even the idea of language and its nominata
already inclines us to error, because the transcendental is beyond abstract reference.
That's the problem, you know.
If we had a category that implied to us that it was beyond...
that the reference in this category are beyond abstract reference,
you can see that there's already a problem,
because now we're going to refer to them abstractly in language.
We think we can encompass them if we just make the right shape of category.
Well, what if it's not true?
What if there's some things that language just fails to point toward,
or misleads us when it does?
What if the goal isn't to refer to things,
but to actually reacquire the direct experience of original participation
in the sense that Owen Barfield may have meant it,
and in the sense that I was implying when I talked about what I strongly suspect happened
to ancient peoples when they looked at the sky, or a mountain, or a lake.
They didn't see things.
They immediately felt the transformation of their consciousness in a transcendental way
into them above their mere humanity, into direct filial, memorial, and visceral participation.
The same way as when you jump into a lake of water,
you slide down an ice sheaf, or you bungee jump into a crevasse, this kind of thing.
If it is impossible, you can make face noises about the flavors of food.
Will you be able to taste the face noises? No.
There might be unusual humans who have forms of sensorial memory,
or if I suggest the word strawberry, they begin to taste it,
as if the memory of strawberry is in their mouth or something.
But not me. You can talk about apples all you like.
I will not be able to taste the flavor of apples.
Can I be hypnotized or entranced to think I am tasting apples? Possibly.
Will I actually taste them? Seems wildly unlikely to me.
So I suspect that when the ancients looked up at the sky, and I have reason to suspect this,
not just from thought, not just theorizing, but from my own direct experience,
when they looked at the sky, it was like diving into an immediate relationship
with the spirit of time-space, origin.
And so they did not so much have superstitions.
Their religions were not superstitious.
What their religions were doing, the Egyptians and the Aztecs and people who came before them,
what they were doing is they were making images of beings and situations they directly knew,
participatorially, in their relationships with the world, the sky, origin, the sun, the moon, the planets.
Much as a solo diver, for example, might represent dolphins, whales, octopuses, coral reefs, shellfish,
crayfish, lobsters, clams, shrimp, cuttlefish, squid, fishes of every kind, sea anemones, sea urchins.
When we look at the effusive, you know, what we think of as symbolism of the Egyptians,
rather than thinking, oh, they were very inventive, we should think perhaps,
they're actually telling us something about their direct experience of the features of character and relation
they directly encountered in exploring time-space by diving into it, participatorially,
just as if they could rise up off the earth, just as if they could fall into the sky.
They could dive into the sky the same way we dive into the ocean.
And they didn't need spaceships because they had something better.
I mean, spaceships really suck. If you got to have those, time-space is terrible for that.
They had something better. They had what I would call a traveling body, which I believe we all have.
We're just trained not to think so and not to believe in it and so forth.
And I think the traveling body was naturally awakened in them when they gazed skyward.
And so then, from that perspective, they may have understood that earth was a planet,
having looked back upon it from a disembodied traveling perspective of a far above the earth.
So I suspect that humans had seen the earth from space long before the American astronauts
or the Soviet astronauts went up there.
And these are some of my thoughts on what is the earth and many related ideas.
Again, I'm so grateful for our time together today and the fact that we're all still alive
and can attempt meaningful anemnesis about what it means to be human, to be alive,
to participate in physical reality and to think in new and hopefully liberating ways that result in education rather than merely education.
Thank you for joining me. I look forward to learning together again very soon.
Bye-bye for now. May your way be beautiful.
