Hello everybody. Welcome.
So grateful to have this time together while we are all still alive here on Earth.
A planet that I profoundly adore and deeply believe in the beingness of, you know,
the idea that Earth is a being is probably both very old and also not as universal as
we might imagine. It's hawk time here.
Hawkeye in the sky circling in another one or two. One in a tree being harassed by a stellar's jay in an example of an ancient symbiosis, not merely enmity.
Hawk is not merely the enemy of the Corvid because they inform each other's intelligences and developmental arcs, evolutionary arcs.
What may superficially appear to be enmity or competition, you know, is never merely the one valued delusion
that language and modern human culture are likely to presume, suppose, impose on our thought through various games in language and so forth.
In fact, all relationships and all subjects of nomenclature, all, they called, it'll come to me, all nomenada.
Nomenada are those things toward which language points our attention, concern, or capacity to distinguish.
And that English part has a lot in common with the idea of extinguishing and what gets extinguished. The unity and the infinite valued situation that we find ourselves in when considering in consciousness the identities or properties or qualities of beings,
circumstances and relationships. We should learn and remind each other to be extremely suspicious of any one valued kind of polemic or dialectic.
The idea that that is a tree and that is only a tree is ridiculous, insulting, stupidifying.
The woman was saying, where we're going, where we're going, you have a choice. And then she began to enumerate the different restaurants.
But notice how she said, I noticed, how she said, you have a choice, the singular, you have a choice. As if, you know, you either have a choice or no choice.
And so if you don't have no choices, you have a choice. And this is one of the common debilitating identity games that underlie English and that get imported into consciousness smuggled in when we learn English in the milieu of
native speakers of this language, which is not merely colonial and colonizing, yet has these qualities and histories associated with it.
So back to the earth as a being, you know, some indigenous, for example, some for example, indigenous cultures do not see the earth as a being.
And it's not clear which cultures were aware of the idea of a planet at all, and when this idea may have arisen in any culture we may direct our attention towards.
It does seem a multibird goose attack. The male is angry. The neck is all craned over and he's ready to do the I'm going to bite you bit.
To the other words. And this one appears to have possibly suffered some kind of a neck attack, but maybe not.
So, you know, we have these weird ideas, and they seem entirely ordinary to us, at least since Galileo, the idea that this is a solar system in a galaxy in a universe that space is mostly empty, that planets are objects, not beings.
When in fact, more than likely, the, not more than likely, almost certainly, the planets are not merely not inert, and they are not merely beings.
They are, perhaps, and I think it's very likely, they are transcendental forms of which the physical aspect is the minimal component of the form, much like humans and what we think of as souls or our spirits.
You know, as a regular everyday human being, your body seems to be what you are. You are your body, and so you experience threats to your body as if they are threats to you, fundamentally, because you don't have an experience,
maybe you don't have an experience of being, but not being, your body.
I remember seeing a cartoon yesterday of someone sitting up in bed, and the cartoon was entitled, In the Body Experience, instead of out of body, in of body experience.
But you know, many of us have had the experience of being outside our body, of having our perspective and perception located in space distinctly from where our body is.
Very common that this turns out, relatively common, that this turns out to be the upper left hand corner of the room, as it might be perceived relational to our body.
And that upper left thing is kind of interesting, because it implies right hemispheric stuff going on.
Now, some people will say, particularly materialists, physicalists, especially eliminative materialists, that that's just an illusion.
But such people will also say that the mind with which they are forming that conclusion is illusory, not understanding that their argument undermines their argument.
If your mind is merely an illusion, and if illusions are that which is not real, or does not correspond to reality in some way, is not veritical, then there's no reason to impose validity on any assertion that can be made by such a mind, including the assertion that the mind is illusory, or consciousness is illusory.
Or an epiphenomenon of brain function, or et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
Many ridiculous arguments suffer from declarative self-inclusion, where if the argument is taken seriously, it naturally undermines itself according to the principles of set theory.
Because by including its origin in the proclamation, i.e. minds are just an illusion, well, the thing that you're making the statement with, and the thing you're interpreting the statement with, not to mention the thing that causes you to believe the statement to be valid, you've just rendered all of these untrustworthy in a fundamental way.
So, you know, I can imagine, to go back to the Earth as a being thing, that it's not clear who knew ideas about planets and stars and so forth, and when some people or group or culture or cohort knew these things,
in terms of the developmental history of our species, everyone probably had an idea of home. This is the world, quote-unquote, but that didn't necessarily mean a planet, and this is our world, the territory between these three mountains and those two rivers, for example.
Inclusive of this, that, and the other thing, is our home, and, you know, most of the humans thought, it seems, many of them anyway, that they were the original people.
So, we are not a people, and the article matters here, we are the people, we are the people.
And this is clear from anthropological research, which is not always accurate and is often misconstrued by those researchers that compose the perspectives and write about them for, you know, academic purposes and so forth.
Yeah, these matters are very murky. What is a world? Did they understand planets? It seems very clear that people like the Dogon, who appear to have had contact with some form of non-human intelligence, were aware that there are planets, and that this is a planet, and there were stars,
and that a particular star was the home of sky people, and they knew essentially impossible things about that star. For example, they knew, I believe, that it was a binary, which is impossible to detect without, you know, really advanced mathematical knowledge and telescopes and things.
They knew that the star had a planet, which is impossible to detect, I think.
So, there were ancient peoples who might have been aware of the idea of a planet, but what it meant to them is very difficult to understand, and it seems impossible that it could have meant what we think of as a planet.
In fact, it's similarly impossible that they would imagine space, or space-time, in the abstract way we do, thinking of it, for example, as a vacuum populated by a variety of celestial objects.
I.e. things, right?
So, we'd have to go sort of people by people, and time by time, to gain any reasonable understanding, and even then it would be difficult, especially if there were no written records.
We would only have their traditional knowledge to depend on, which in some cases is relatively reliable and a few thousand years old, and in other cases is not very reliable, and in some other cases is much older, twenty, ten, twenty thousand years old.
So, it would be very difficult to understand what they thought about stars and planets, and it's probably not true that they were animists in the senses that we think about animism.
Because for us, animism is a weird thing. It's like you get rid of the qualities of being in beings, and situations, and circumstances, and so forth. You throw that all away, and you re-add it in a sort of panpsychic gesture.
So, because we start out from the abstract and we re-add it, there would be impossible for these older peoples to have thought abstractly about beings' places.
Mountains were not necessarily gods, but in nearly no case was it possible that they weren't. They didn't have at least the status of beings, and probably the status of something we don't have a category for.
And this is the category that I use the word transentience to point at. It is more than a being. It is a progenitor of beings. Without this, there is no beings. Without this, there are no minds.
The sun and the world clearly belong to this class. The only category we really have in English that points this way that nominates the sun, the moon, and the earth to such a status would be god, a god.
And so we have these weird ideas of Gaia and stuff.
But these ideas mostly only come to us, not necessarily from ancient peoples, from modern anthropologists painting things onto perspectives they were exposed to, in living with and communicating with older peoples.
And so it's very difficult for us moderns, especially those of us who speak English, and don't speak an indigenous language. That duck tried to eat the butterfly. That's hilarious.
I don't know why that's hilarious. I just find it hilarious. It's not innately hilarious. It just reminds me of certain comic strips.
So yeah, we unfortunately come, we learn about a world of things through the language that we speak.
And initially these things are deprived of beingness, of originness, of uniterity, of ultimacy, meaning not merely ordinary, not a thing, can't be a thing, unthingness.
Prioritized above all language concepts and so forth, ultimacy, and uniterity meaning not a separate subject of discernment or distinguishing, but rather an instance of the entire history and future of everything.
An instance. I think Alan Watts once said something resembling in the same way an apple tree could be said to verb, right, it apples.
Meaning the constant production and appalling of the tree. In the same way the apple tree apples, the world persons, right, the world just produces these myriad forms of beings, including apple trees.
As an expression of its own nature, history, origin, purpose of expression, and so forth.
So what is the world? Well, it's not a what. One way to answer the question is, or one way to respond to the question is, without the world, izzings, izzises, don't exist.
There are no izzings. And izzings are being as this moment, present being-ness, the doing of being by being. Clearly the waterfowl agree with me.
I think it's very obvious. Yes, of course this is so. But the world is the precursor to the possibility of things like beings and minds and relationships and circumstances and so forth.
And it's also the peculiar stage for what we refer to with the word consciousness without very well understanding what that might mean or what we mean by that.
Unless we suppose, see this is the problem. In English these things are additive. It is as if when we say you are conscious, we are adding a property to a container when nothing like that is even possibly going on except in language.
There's no chance that language is the possession of a container. No chance.
If anything, it's the natural expression of communal origination, futurity, relation in and as a localized exemplar of transcendent hyper-systems that produce things like time-space, galaxy stars, black holes, white holes, quasars, pulsars.
Nebula, moons, the keeper belt, ice chunks, comets, meteors, all of these celestial beings.
So these are exemplars of an originary pulse that we refer to often as the primary miracle in science.
What? Cosmology, scientific cosmology. The miracle we call the, as if there's only one, Big Bang, which implies some kind of, you know, ah, it's got soaked. Well, I got wet actually, not soaked.
Um, I don't know, for those of us, uh, periodically minded, it implies that something was, having it on with something else and then it blew up and then stars and, you know, time-space and all that, uh, comes out of the, the excasm.
Yeah, that's the Give Me One Miracle branch of cosmology. Give Me One Miracle and I'll explain everything else.
Um, the thing about science though is that it's not fundamentally explanatory. It's fundamentally utilitarian for most human purposes. There are exceptions. And by utilitarian, I mean, it forges theories, puts those theories in combat against each other in a kind of rock, paper, scissors.
That's the thing. And then the ones that win, propagate, and then we make machines to both test and implement physical observations and, uh, mostly, like, physics is a lot about prediction, right?
What, what happens next? Given X, Y, and Z, um, and some other variables, what, what do they tell me how the system will evolve and the better your story about how it evolves, the more accurate we presume the theory to be.
Um, but I'm not really here to talk about that. So what is the world? Well, again, the question's kind of ridiculous.
Because without the world, there are no questions, right?
So one of the things that is around here and for us is the moment to moment origin of the possibility of purposeful thought, relation, conception, nomenclature, theories, and so forth.
You can see that it doesn't fit inside the category tree because the category tree doesn't exist without it. It's very similar with the sun.
Let's, let's take that thing away. Poof. Right? All human thought, history, experience, religion, math, science, art, insanity, war, everything. Gone. Poof. Gone. Meaningless.
So, obviously the sun must be held in an extremely specialized, uh, perspective, categorically, where it, it's an exemplar of supercategory, beyond categories.
Because without it you don't get minds. Without minds, categories don't matter anymore.
So this is why I think stars and planets and moons and things are transcendental.
And I tend to, um, concern myself somewhat with what that means and how to better understand it, even conceptually.
But the, the idea for me is that the idea that I usually play with here, I can play with others, is that one must preserve much like Gidellian incompleteness in mathematical systems.
Ha! Just got wet again. Um, one must preserve the super, super categorical character, necessity of transcendentals that by their existence create the possibility of thought.
Um, we mustn't subsume those into the conceptual systems in an ordinary fashion. Uh, especially if we are concerned about the verity of our rationales.
Um, rational meaning to make parts of, uh, to both distinguish and connect, to denote and connotate these distinguishings and connections.
Of course the connotation thing is more like dreaming than logic. The denotation thing is more like logic than dreaming.
So, for me, also what I wanted to say is that for some indigenous peoples, um, the sun and the earth were well known to be beings.
For example, I suspect this is what my friend, Ryan Firstdiver, uh, who I strongly recommend you look up his YouTube channel.
Um, brilliant. One of the last remaining Blackfoot Beaver men, um, one of my closest friends, and, uh, one of my favorite teachers.
By the way, don't be fooled by Ryan's external cultural costume. Um, you know, he may listen to rap music and, uh, scrap with, uh, the superficial culture and its icons and so forth.
Inside that human being is a profoundly deep, uh, intelligence. A brilliant writer. Um, one of the most heartful people I've ever known.
Again, looks tough on the outside, soft as soft can be in his heart, loves the animals, the living places, honors the old agreements to the best of his ability, rescues the animals from the humans.
Um, very much a heroic being in my view.
Ryan, I think, would say that although the sun and the moon are understood in Blackfoot traditional culture as sky persons or something like this, persons of the sky.
Um, as are the Morning Star and the Companion Star, the False Morning Star, which is what we call Jupiter.
Uh, though those are sky people, and they were here once. They've been, they've come down to the Earth, and they still come down to the Earth to visit and communicate and transact with humans who get their attention.
Um, and there are various ways to acquire their attention, which is also a fairly dangerous thing, you know, project to undertake.
But although they are the sky people, the Earth is like the Hogan, right, or the, not necessarily the teepee, but like the communal home of the sun and the moon.
Um, where perhaps, this is my own edition, don't quote me on this, uh, their children live, perhaps.
Um, and there are old stories where they were here together on the Earth. They had children, I believe, seven, particularly, which would be hard to not imagine corresponds to the planets.
Um, all of those beings lived here, and the traditional story, um, the moon, uh, takes a lover, the sun becomes incensed, haha, what a pun, at this, because the sun can smell, can smell the lover around the house.
And then there's a huge fight. The moon goes insane and becomes a sort of like a banshee-like monster that is chasing them, and the sun gives each of the children a pouch in which there is a power of protection, and the sun, I mean, the moon hunts them.
This is a very abbreviated version of the story. Uh, eventually, there's a sort of day-n-maw, I think, a climax where, um, the sun, or one of the children, I can't remember, cuts off one of the moon's legs, and the moon bleeds,
and then the moon goes up into the sky, and this is a explanatory figure, literally a figure, or a ceremonial, you know, traditional story figure, that explains the moon's, um, cycling.
Uh, what's going on is that the leg is being cut off, and then regrown, uh, over the lunar cycle.
Then, of course, they all go back up into the sky. Now, the thing that is clear is that those planets are not objects, and the moon is not an object.
It's unclear what category they belong to. It isn't gods, but it's certainly both inclusive of humanity and transcendental to it at the same time.
As I understand from Ryan, the Blackfoot people, generally, traditionally, do not believe in the idea of the transmigration of souls or the existence of souls.
Um, there is sort of such a thing as a ghost, in a way, but it's not the same concept.
In fact, the whole foundation of categories and concepts in Blackfoot is fundamentally different, and one might even say, in a sense, not translatable, to the western, uh, templates of identity, um, abstraction, function, role, circumstance, situation, relationship,
and so forth. For one thing, uh, it seems to me from what I've learned that, and I'm happy to be corrected about any of this, by the way.
I'm not an expert on any of these matters. I've just been lucky enough. I'm like a kid who got some mud splashed on him, right?
And I'm like, oh, this mud is very interesting. But I don't really know. I didn't grow up in the mud, um, so to speak.
Uh, but, you know, like, identity is rarely explicit, uh, in Blackfoot traditional culture.
Because we don't know moment to moment whether the appearance of someone or something is the most important feature to attend.
So I may see someone coming from far off. Ah, there is a being, I might say.
As they get closer, I may see certain signs that they belong to a specific people or place. Ah, they are a, uh, a blood tribe man appearing on a horse, appearing, right?
But they, that's not necessarily that I know it's a blood tribe man. All I know is that there are signs that it's a blood tribe man.
Because that could be the sun. That could be anyone. It depends sort of on who they come from. Like, who is being represented by the being who is coming.
And as they approach closer and closer, there are different linguistic forms to treat with the situation as, as we get closer to something resembling, uh, denotative identity.
Ah, this is indeed, you know, uh, the man whose indigenous name is thus and such, or the woman whose indigenous name is thus and such.
And it is indeed that she represents, you know, her people and her tribe and herself.
But it's possible for there to be lots of other outcomes. And this is something that in English is, is not understood.
When we see Joe, we think, oh, that's Joe, end of story. Which really almost can't be true because there's so many phase states of Joe and so many purposes for which Joe might be here or not here,
or, or arriving or departing or all of these things that we don't pay much attention to in terms of identity in English.
And we should because there are crucial features of understanding, role, identity, relationship, origin, future, futurity, ultimacy, all of these things, right?
You know, I heard a story, uh, that was claimed. And, you know, once again, it's not my, it's not my goal here to say, oh, this is a true story, or this is not a true story.
What I am saying here is that in the sense of theoria, a useful story, a useful perspective, this perspective is useful.
I heard a story where a man claimed to have been working at a secret government installation. He had disguised his voice to tell the story.
I have also heard that the story was somehow debunked. I don't care. I don't care because I'm not trying to tell the truth.
I'm trying to, uh, illumine a perspective that I think is important and useful.
So in this story, um, it was claimed that each of the planets that we know of, that we exist in a specific layer of a multi-layered reality.
And in our layer, the earth, is the primarily inhabited planet, the, um, biorelational hyperstructure in the solar system.
Um, it was not clear whether the other planets presently have life or not.
But it was claimed that in other, there's a layer in which every planet in the solar system is inhabited.
Uh, and from this one, it looks like earth is the only one. There are layers in which the earth is not inhabited.
And the other planet, another planet is inhabited or another couple of planets are inhabited.
Um, and not necessarily by life as we suppose it must exist.
And this is a very interesting story because I had been shown something similar to this.
Uh-huh. A perspective in which, um, what looks like craters on worlds in this layer are actually cities in other layers.
Now this is very science fiction-y and I'm not trying to claim it's true.
I'm claiming that it's a useful perspective to entertain in consciousness.
Um, why is it useful?
Well, it draws into question the strange, unjustifiable certainties that we are, that are imposed upon us.
Uh, oh, that's really interesting. I was wondering what is underneath these radish plants and what is underneath them are roots, not radishes.
You know, think about the difference between, think that you don't, you haven't seen people gardening or growing food, right?
And you come across some plants and you look at the surface of the plants and you see the leaves and the, you know, the stems and things.
And you think, well, that doesn't look edible.
Well, you're probably right. It's not particularly edible and or nutritious.
But then, under the ground, where you are not looking yet, there are radishes and potatoes and carrot symptoms.
And it is similar in reality, right? The superficial appearances and the expectations imposed on us in English are not indicative of the character of nature or origin or reality, whatever reality might mean.
And that also presumes that, you know, I am disinclined personally to believe that observation causes wave collapse and other seemingly ridiculous to me stories.
I just don't believe it.
I think something's going on and something probably very fascinating is going on, but it isn't that.
I certainly also don't believe that if I turn away from a tree and I'm not observing it directly, it's not there.
No, there's no chance that that's going on, as far as I'm concerned.
I'm willing to entertain the idea in discussion and so forth, of course.
But do I think it's a reasonable or rational idea? Hell no!
You know, I have friends that think, when you stop looking at things, they're not there anymore.
I'm like, well, that's kind of a problem because that would mean that you're a highly privileged observer.
It would mean that your cells aren't observers simply because they don't have eyes.
So your cells can't tell that the oven behind you is now missing from reality.
And none of the insects or other animals or plants qualify as observers.
This is the problem I have with, like, if a tree falls in the forest, you know, there's no one there to hear it as it makes sound.
Forest is filled with living beings.
Well, maybe the human concept of sound, if there's no humans there, it's unreasonable to say that the human concept of sound pertains to what then occurs.
But forest is filled with living beings, and I'm pretty sure they experience vibrations in the air.
And many of them have actual ears, you know, and all of them have cells that can detect vibration.
And some of them have specialized structures like antennae and things like this that can detect all kinds of things, probably.
So the idea that the human is the ultimately privileged observer that causes wave collapse is fucking insane.
I just don't believe it.
And, you know, convince me, right?
If you want to have an argument about this, my one friend, Sebastian, I know, wants to argue about this with me.
By all means, let's have an argument and we'll debate the problem.
I think, again, you have the same problem as you have with statements that encompass their own origin here.
There's some kind of a recursion problem in this argument that I can find, but I need someone to make a relatively clear claim that I can then refute first.
I could do it myself, but that would be tedious and reminiscent of onanism, intellectual onanism.
So what are the planets?
Like, what is time space?
Well, the, almost all the, I mean, this is a question that has, that I've been in love with for a long, long time.
When ancient people looked at the sky, what, what did they experience?
What did they think that was if they thought it was something?
And, you know, I would argue that probably they were far less conceptual than we are.
So it's not like they're trying to think, what is that?
That's very conceptual.
Rather, they are probably having an experience more like diving into water, where suddenly every, when you look up at the night sky, the universe changes.
You change, everything changes, and you are aware in a participatory sense of the nature of the sky,
of its status as ultimate progen, I can't make this word, I can't make this tense of the word, progenerative, right?
It is that from which all things derive their being, parental or hyper parental, filial, this is my family, and these are not thoughts.
They are experienced viscerally, emotionally, cognitively, in a way not dissimilar to what happens when we dream, right?
One thing you're not really doing much of when you're dreaming, otherwise you're either going to wake up or become lucid, is thinking.
