And there can be more than one home.
But there's almost always a central one that we think of, ah, this is my home.
We may not have even lived there, or lived there very long.
But there's another home.
There's a home beyond the sky.
There's a place we all come from.
All the beings, all of them.
The trees and the insects and the animals and the fishes.
The birds and the bears and the badgers.
The bats, the hummingbirds.
The lions, the hippopotamia, whales and dolphins and cuttlefish and squid.
Pragmatuses and spiders.
All these beings come from one home.
And if we could just flip our minds upside down, we'd immediately understand
that community and communion is the true nature of being.
We don't have to be religious about it, though we might be very passionate if we actually feel it again together and remember it.
We don't have to get drunk on concepts, but we might get drunk on the nectar of our own being.
And if that's really what's going on, I trust it.
The sky is orange and gray in the east.
The sun is rising.
You know, I would say crazy things.
I really would.
If this were my last speech, I would say very crazy things.
But perhaps instead of crazy and passionate things, I can say simple things that I trust.
In the core of us.
There's a strange kind of magnetic compass.
It helps us navigate.
But it's easily overwhelmed by noise and habit.
You can see children following it. Dogs follow it.
There's good examples. Trees follow it, but they do it very slowly.
It instructs the growth of us.
We poor moderns have so few contexts in which its truest lights shine bright and authentic.
So we have to strive together to invent such contexts and discover them and remember them and become them together.
In every moment of our lives, perhaps more when we're confused and troubled and feel lost.
That's when it most matters.
When I make these recordings, I'm remembering the hope of such a context even if it seems nowhere in evidence.
In the little features of my daily life, I reach for it.
However clumsily or confusedly.
You know, until we come together under certain agreements,
the context starts out compromised by all kinds of things.
All kinds of ways.
But if we're careful and passionate and committed, then we can assemble a context even if only for a few moments
in which we try together to remember what it means to be human.
We try together to remember our origin, our true nature, to discover it, to enact it.
I'm not sure how serious all the games around here on Earth are, but they seem to me incredibly serious.
And maybe that's because I'm still stuck on this side of the veil of clear awareness.
But I certainly take them seriously.
And even if they're not serious, there's an immense field
waiting for the slightest movement toward it inside us, hoping for that movement.
Starving for that movement in the direction of home.
You know, most of us long for this home, but the only place it could ever be is here.
And it's really easy to say this and it's difficult to realize it, but this moment right now,
if we can't make this home.
And I can't always, but I try to remember.
The place where I'm at doesn't feel like home.
The other night when walking down the street in a subdivision in the San Joaquin Valley,
someone had put a box out in front of their house.
There was a sign said Ruby Red Grapefruit Free.
I thought, well, I'll take a couple of these home.
And I got to say, those were like no grapefruit I've ever tasted.
They were like candy.
You could just gloriously chew your way through one of these things.
And it was an ecstatic experience.
I was so surprised I never expected it was even possible that grapefruits could be that good.
But alas, I don't see the box out tonight.
Probably be a long time before I have a grapefruit like that again.
You know, we all have a library of problems.
And for most of us, that burden is really heavy.
It's not trivial.
It's not to be dismissed.
But I think we're kind of trained to collect and worry over them.
There might be something better we could be doing with our attention,
even if our goal was to actually solve those problems.
Because somehow just dragging them along like a 15 car train
doesn't actually seem to make, you know,
it doesn't have a lot of effect.
I'm hearing a bird I've never heard before.
I wonder if it's a flicker.
It's a flicker.
It's a flicker.
It's a flicker.
It's a flicker.
I'm listening.
It's a raptor.
Some kind of small hawk.
There's two of them calling to each other.
One's far away.
It's easy to feel tangled up in our habits and the money and the problems.
But every moment is away beyond them.
And this is the attraction.
This is what gets weaponized by religion is this way beyond them.
Beyond our problems.
But the actual nature of who we are is completely beyond our problems.
However involving they may seem.
However gravidic they are.
And look sometimes we need help.
I need help to remember that or embody it.
We walk in that direction even for a moment.
But the direction is alive and true and accessible.
No matter how dire things may appear in our minds and hearts.
Some time ago I found a flicker feather.
And I've never seen a flicker.
I'm hoping I might see one here sometime.
I think there's deep truth to the idea that each of us have callings.
And I think the word is actually decent in this case in English.
Because there's something calling us.
Asking us to remember.
And we each have unique ways of enacting that remembrance.
And the world tries to shave and shape them to
the strange abuses that parade around as virtue and excellence perfection.
Immortality.
Attention.
But we all have callings.
And they're always alive in us even in the darkest time.
Even at the gate of death.
Think for a moment about yours.
Urgencies you came to birth with.
Pause and reflect on this with me for a moment.
Somewhere inside all of them is true virtue.
And it's alive.
Part of us.
Calling us.
Hold the line.
Take one step up that ladder.
Find four other ladders and climb them too.
Not for the sake of the world or what the humans value.
For the sake of what our souls value and remember are made of.
Oh wow, now the sky is really something.
There's blues and orange pinks.
One contrail.
Oh there's two.
Nearby airport.
But yeah, it looks like.
It looks like Origins painting with pastels in this feeling rather
passionate this morning.
My goodness.
And I could take a picture but it won't really help.
Maybe that's what I'll use for the graphic for this recording.
This world is all the worlds.
There's no need to travel anywhere.
All the worlds are here.
The humans run away from this.
They teach us to run away from it.
They don't introduce us to it.
All the worlds are here.
All the beings are here.
And there are many kinds of beings that neither our fictions nor religion
have revealed to us.
Not all beings are physical.
And some of them live in the communion of beings.
And these are the ones we have magical stories about.
We've suffered a catastrophic loss of wonder and imagination.
Jay, I love them.
We've been told to do away with superstition.
But we've thrown the soul out with a wrapping paper.
Yes, by all means, let's do away with superstition.
Well, not by all means.
By reasonable means.
But the nature of being is fundamentally beyond the idea of magic
or science or religion.
So far beyond that those ideas and all their concepts are trivial in the face of it.
And this is why we ache to remember.
We've come to the desert island of being as humans.
To remember.
Each other, our origin, virtue.
The wonder and awe and beauty of being.
The nature of nature.
The sun, the moon, the stars, the sky, time space.
We are all these things.
More so when we remember together.
And it's a grim forgetting we suffer.
My goodness.
What I'm here to remind you and myself.
That our lives and our nature is more amazing than all the stories.
In the brightness of that truth they would shrivel.
The birds are awakening.
A lot of raptors.
Each day we get a new life.
And no matter how stuck we are.
No matter how thick the water seems.
Even if time starts to spin and spiral or go backwards.
It's a new world each day.
It's a new world each moment.
If we can remember together and give ourselves reason to hope.
There are strange puzzles before me.
Very strange puzzles.
I'm walking by a lake where I learned to fish.
Fishing is a peculiar pastime.
Though I learned to love it as a child,
I don't think I can handle the hurting the fishes anymore.
But somehow I think our origin alive in us outside of time is fishing.
And our human lives are almost like bait.
But what are they hoping to catch our souls?
Some experience of beauty.
Of becoming it.
Remembering it.
And acting it and bodying it.
The universe is so magical that if you actually just reach out to it,
it reaches back immediately.
But a lot of the time I'm too busy thinking things.
