I'm not saying we should burn it down, but let's transform a bunch of that over here.
Let's make this a really tiny portion of what we do.
Let's make service to each other, which is really exciting and rewarding
and pays you in 15 ways every day instead of one.
It's easy to steal.
We need this and more and more in our lives each day.
So I'm inviting you to join me in making little pods, you know?
Put together mission-based little collectives that help each other learn and do things.
That's all. Does that sound crazy?
Hopefully not because over here there's something a lot scarier
that's really taken us apart at the basis of things.
We need to transform this piece by piece.
We can't have a war and attack it and it's not a conspiracy.
This is just sort of naturally what happens when we don't pay attention to each other
or when we have been by our habits with knowledge, language and culture,
when we have been handicapped and we've been purposefully circumcised relationally.
Just to give you a little idea about how important that is,
when I was an infant they sliced on my, you can imagine the organ I'm talking about,
my male organ, they sliced a part of it off.
I don't even know who they were, they didn't know me.
Why did they cut part of my body off? Just out of curiosity.
I don't resent that by the way, that's an interesting just fact for my history,
but I wrote a culture of adults chopped part of the relational intimacy organ off.
Just throw that away.
Might they not be doing that in a lot of other invisible places like nature and our relationships?
I think they are. Why? Because they can make a lot of money doing it.
The more they amputate from us and remove from us,
the more they can sell us back broken replicas of what was stolen,
broken false replicas of roles, jobs, slavery.
Of course not all jobs are bad or some good jobs,
but most of them are inhuman, dehumanizing,
and when you do the actual math they're paying you like 20 to 50 cents an hour.
Like when you figure out everything you have to pay for, you're getting nothing for that work.
Whereas when I work for other people and other beings, just as an ally and asset,
I get paid in intelligence and beauty and money and food and love and attention
in every kind of way that a human being and a living being absolutely needs.
And I get healed and I heal other people and we heal each other and we grow and fly together.
That's how we're meant to be. Let's have some more of that, shall we?
Right on. Hope we'll see you soon. Thanks for joining me.
Goodbye for now.
