Hi, thanks for joining me. My name is Darren Stevenson, probably watching my YouTube channel.
You can find me on Facebook in San Francisco under that name.
I also can be found at wondercloud.wordpress.com, organelle.org,
and a few other places around the web, including VinnyCite Medium.
I am an intelligence artist, or I like to think of myself that way, and what that means is
I play with intelligence to produce it.
I'm the opposite of an analyst. I want to make intelligence rather than analyze it.
And there's something that's been bothering me a lot today.
As I'm learning more about the idea of stars into worlds and how this metaphor,
just a metaphor, it's a model, but it's a very interesting model,
applies to lots of different kinds of behavior.
The behavior, for example, of dogs.
If you see dogs running around, you can tell which ones are sort of leaders,
because they will tend to meet face to face, and oftentimes this will involve conflict very rapidly.
Other dogs who aren't leaders will approach from the sides or the rear,
and these will be understood as orbitals.
In our culture, what we have are phony stars.
These would be politicians, rock stars, actors, people who have very elite roles in our culture,
but are not actually good people.
They're just very good phony people.
These stars in our culture get huge amounts of acclaim, and they also get something none of us get.
They get to play roles rather than jobs.
They have roles.
And like a child, they can play many different roles because they have escaped to some degree, to a small degree.
They've escaped the prison of poverty and slavery to the idea that you just have a job,
that you are just a consumer, that you are just a spectator, that you are just a prisoner,
that you are a data point, that you are there to sell product to.
Now the interesting thing about this last one is, lots of interesting things about it,
but one of the things I like best is how would someone who has never met you be able to recommend things for you
unless they were uncommonly intelligent, sensitive, or human?
How can people who live in job-based roles that circumscribe their ability to be anything
so that fake collectives of people can make a profit?
How can that person be human?
It's hard. They can be human to a degree within the constricted role they are given,
such as therapist, doctor, lawyer, politician.
But we actually expect them to be inhuman in the way that the roles that we have painted upon them demand.
And this is weird, so we just get this straight.
We go by the millions to theaters to watch actors play out roles we can't have.
And we pay millions of dollars for that every month, but we don't get roles.
Now our children won't put up with that, they just won't.
They'll just say no.
They'll play out roles by themselves even if we don't let them.
They absolutely insist on having roles.
And not just one, but like changing fluid, learning, growing superheroes, super villain, criminal, police,
every kind of role, right?
We get nothing.
Once you reach adulthood, your roles are basically entertainer or spectator.
The entertainers get to play false roles, and the spectators get to what?
Live vicariously and pay for that privilege?
What happened to their roles?
What happened to our ability to play roles?
Why do we have millions of role-playing games, but no roles in our culture?
Why do we have highly sophisticated false collectives that dehumanize us to process us into fake humans
that will then communicate and sort of torture the real humans with all of that stuff?
Why do we do all of that?
I mean, don't we want real roles?
Don't we want to have like a leader and a brain person and a brawn person and a sensitive person
and kind of a little crazy but very creative person all together for each other?
Together because they care about the same things and want to lift each other up rather than to lift a fake person?
A really expert fake to the top?
And then pay them madly.
Like a CEO, a doctor, a lawyer, a politician, a rock star, a movie star.
Not that these people aren't good people, okay?
We don't know anything about that.
We know that in their roles they can be a real problem for everybody because they hold up a standard that's a lie
and everyone looks up to that standard and tries to sort of rise to fakeness?
How do you rise to phoniness?
Is that even possible?
Well, it seems to be possible because we do it madly and we override all kinds of originality, authenticity,
sensitivity, humanity, relationality, perspective, purpose.
We just run that stuff over to have this.
Weird, huh?
So here's the thing I want to mention.
A star has orbitals and those orbitals have roles and if they don't, that's a fake star.
That's simple.
You know those things they call archangels?
Those are actually the orbitals of a star.
And our star has at least nine major orbitals, nine.
It's an interesting number.
And it's dragging those orbitals through space and all these little patterns that are really sophisticated and almost like a symphony.
And every one of those little bodies has a role.
They're not spectators, see?
Look at Earth.
Does that look like a spectator to you?
That's a serious, serious thing.
That's billions of years of bioconcentrated relational biocognition following that star through space.
See, that's a role.
That's not a spectator.
And what we have instead are fans.
It's really interesting because a fan is actually the radiant, the false radiance of a star.
It's like that fan that we fan ourselves with, right?
All those rays.
So in a sense, the planets, excuse me, are the fans of Saul, our star, but they have roles.
And those roles change the star, which changes their role, and they change roles as they're going through life.
So humans can do that too.
We can form these things a little bit like a dolphin pod, right?
We have changing roles.
Sometimes someone's leading, sometimes another one's leading.
Sometimes the intelligent person, sometimes the brawny person.
Sometimes the quiet one, sometimes the one.
Sometimes the little child is leading.
And they're all kind of changing and fluidly informing each other.
They're together for each other, for purposes that are true and real to living beings, not to fictional collectives.
Now, fictional collectives have to produce fake individuals.
They have to to live, and they want to remake the world in their image.
Whatever that false lie, that sort of sophisticated structural nonsense that they've invented.
A story, really, a description, okay?
They want to remake us and the world in that image.
And this is true in religion, education, politics, government, philosophy, law, courts, art, music, everything.
Anyone who's trying to be over here is going to face a mountain of opposition from these people and their fans.
Because the fans of these people will be really threatened by any suggestion of authenticity, even their own children.
Even in their own families, they will attack it and crush it and push it down.
And that's the message of a lot of our religious stories, that when the water child, who is the fluid shepherd-like unifier,
of actual purpose, not religious purpose, okay?
Not text-based book purposes from nonsense people.
And not phony collectives, right?
Phony families that aren't actually families at all.
They're just fictions that want to remake everything and master it and dominate it.
And then sell, take stuff from everything, pay nothing for that, and then sell it back.
Like what Google does, or Facebook.
Do they pay you?
Just curious.
As you get to check from Google today, how about Facebook?
Twitter? Do they send you a check?
No?
Hmm.
I wonder why.
Could it be that they're fleecing you like sheep?
I think it could.
So, try to understand that we live in a culture where aspects of our culture are instancing fake collectives.
These are phony family-like units, phony constellations of beings for a purpose that's inhuman.
And will destroy life on earth on purpose.
Just to keep instancing those fake humans, fake roles, fake, you know, we call those jobs actually.
And a person who could be a meaningful participant in reality, their own life, their growth,
becomes essentially like a circumcised slave that is used in new and more egregious ways every time,
every week, every month, every year.
And as this process goes on, it just gets thicker and deeper and more ratcheted in and more locked in.
And these people over here get weaker and more frightened and more afraid.
And then they don't have any choice but to convert.
I'll give you an example.
My sister is not a criminal. She's never been a criminal, but when she became extremely ill,
she couldn't get any medical care, so she had to go to prison to get care.
I'm not going to tell you my story, which is about 10,000 times worse than that.
But what I want you to understand is these people over here are absolutely inhuman.
They will take everything from you and the world and history, the history of life on earth,
they will burn that down in one year if necessary, one.
They'll take anything.
And I mean all of them, the religious people, the government people, the educational people,
the philosophical people, the gurus, everybody, they'll take it all because they're not looking
like they're not looking at purpose.
They're not connecting people together and finding out what they need to be alive, to be intelligent,
to be ecologically related, to be connected with the water, the sky, the sun, the history of knowledge
and learning, the dangers of knowledge and learning.
Our food sources, if we are not intimately relational with each other and our food sources, we die.
We just get diseases.
And instead of having the kind of healing that draws people together to heal the person who is ill
because the person who is ill actually needs attention, right?
They need to be held by their pod group and held up so that they actually raise their pod group
because they remind them of their unity.
Instead of that, we got drugs, surgery, prisons and skyrocketing costs.
I mean there's nothing more expensive than healthcare except maybe a funeral.
Keep that in mind.
Nothing more expensive than healthcare and funerals in our common lives.
So what I'd like to recommend is that we go back to a model that's more like our hand
and less like one finger isolated telling other beings fake stories about what they have to be
and then selling them phony job employee slave roles instead of us playing mission-based roles
that are fascinatingly meaningful, like I play every day by the way, all day long every day,
with and for each other, for the history of life and intelligence on earth
and for the future of all living beings.
It's again, it's not a religion.
This is what we do anyway.
This is what it means to be human.
We are the role-playing animal and when we're denied roles, we die.
And that's why we can be sold films and fictions and rock music and rock music is,
I mean for all that I like rock music, I'm a guitar player by the way.
I've been a musician most of my adult life.
I love music, but commercial music, let's face it, there's something really missing from it
because the source of music was not entertainment.
It was education and healing.
We used to get into these little pod groups, right,
and we would dance and sing together all the people, not one person to them.
All the people would be dancing and singing and drumming
and there might even be like a sick person here in the middle
that we're trying to heal and also that will connect us.
Now we might need medicine for that person too, okay?
And even in our culture, we probably need medicine and surgery, okay?
Not a problem, but a lot of what we need is attention
and without each other, we can't even tell any that this is happening, right?
As you can see, nobody's really clear about the things that I'm saying
and if they are, they're probably kind of keeping quiet
because it's a dangerous thing to talk about.
So we can go back step by step every day with every act we do to a model like this
where we work only, we don't work actually, we act and think and be into our unity
within for each other's fulfillment, for our insight and discovery,
not for religion, not for gurus, not for book sales, not for cults,
not for science, not for data, for us, for living beings,
for the history of life on earth, for the future of all of this beauty
which is really actually a lot more important than anything over here.
You could burn this all down and we would all be just better off.
Everything on earth would be better off.
