So when I watch nature, I see endless
call and response behavior that's highly intelligent.
I see a lot of hitchhiking. When I watch the birds, you can see tension
distributing among a group of animals. And you can see the tension build up
up until suddenly one or more of the animals will begin behaving aggressively,
which only rarely results in an actual attack.
And then you will see both the attacker and the victim and the rest of the animals
they will shake. They will vibrate together.
The animals and the plants and the ecologies
evince a mode of behavior and recognition and iterative ascent toward what I will argue.
Wow. I haven't seen this place in forever.
Toward what I will argue is,
tends to advance everyone's potentials for not just survival, but developmental efflorescence.
And this is what I really mean by intelligence. Benefits everybody.
Yes, there are, you know, in a sense, we might think that there are sacrifices.
This animal is eaten. Those children die. This elder perishes.
It's not that everyone gets to survive indefinitely. That's not how the game works.
But actual intelligence looks like a sort of communal, complex communal relationships.
But have the effect of raising the bar for all participants past, present, and future.
Past because the participants that are here today are the bodies of ancestral beings and lineages.
Past, present, and future. And that's what intelligence looks like to me.
You know, unfortunately for life on earth, the extremely sudden emergence
of human technological, what, I mean, garbage,
and toxicity, you know, didn't give the creatures long enough to adapt.
Tigers might have been able to adapt to spears if there weren't millions of humans using them.
Less so to bows and arrows. By the time guns appear, there's no chance of adaptation.
Tigers just get executed, extinguished in a very short period of time.
There's stories about jaguars in South America hunting and killing the hunters who brought guns
down there to kill them. And having those hunters having to be taught by Tigreros,
which were highly skillful spear hunters that had traditionally preyed on the jaguars.
Though why anyone would want to kill a jaguar is completely inconceivable to me.
You might as well attack the sun. But, you know, the humans are really bold.
They'll go after anything that moves and most of what doesn't. Just for the sake of having said, I killed it.
Just for the sake of having said, I killed it.
So when you look at nature, what you see are complex layer, multi-layered systems,
highly dimensionalized over time that opportunistically ratchet toward mutual benefit,
survival of the context, preservation of the context of life itself,
homeostatic, what, ever improving homeostatic resilience. Because time space is sketchy.
There's lots of dangers. In a sense, the problem we have with humans is a problem of way too much
luxury. There's nothing killing us off, you know, on moss regularly enough to
keep us from converting this unimaginable luxury into omniside.
You know, this is something I don't want to say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to
say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to say
I'm going to say that I'm going to say I'm going to假
fin
you get across the street before I hypocritically fail to do something that resembles like what I'm
talking about. So in a sense one could imagine that actual intelligence looks like a communal
magnification of the dimensionality of potentials for resilience and complex developmental
embodiment. And you can see that what the humans are doing is the opposite of that. They're dumping
planetary biological and ecological resilience into machines, into dead structure. I mean look at
the ridiculousness of the idea of pavement and how lethal that is because it just subtracts living
space from the planet at an ever-increasing rate. The machines own nearly everything where I live
and what the machines don't own the pirates own. It's almost all dead structure. I am a homeless
person with a home. I cannot belong to the land. The land cannot belong to me or my people. It's been
parceled, purchased, parasitized, punished, and obliterated. And the fact that the boxes around me
appear to have been, in this case, well ornamented is a tragic antithesis of anything resembling
real value. Real value is always alive. Real intelligence remembers its origins, protects them,
preserves the context from which they arose and in which they developed. So these are some of the
thoughts that I have today and some of the things that I hoped to discuss yesterday which were
particularly the way that organisms hitchhike on each other's historical, biorelational, and cognitive
activity to produce this enhancement of opportunity and resilience that we see in places like the
rainforests of the Amazon or the untouched, I guess there's no such thing anymore, but we might imagine
to have been the untouched beauty of the oceans prior to them having been furiously intoxicated,
obliterated, and pirated by something that I don't really even think is human. Individual humans can
be human. It's very uncommon for collective humans to be human. They turn into some kind of monstrous,
self-capturing nightmare of replicative omniside. And people might think, Darren, you're being a
little extreme. No, I'm not being extreme enough. I'm holding back big time for the sake of the tenor
of my lecture here today. For now, this is all I have. I am approaching one of my transit objectives.
I have walked through the valley of death and have come out shining today this time. I'm going to
celebrate that with a specific food that also is nostalgic. One of the first places I ever ate at
a restaurant here when I first came here, circa what? 1991? I think that's right, 1990, 1991, 89,
89 through 91 somewhere in there. So thank you for joining me. I hope you found some useful and
inspiring perspectives in my talk today. Even though to some degree, I'm a little bit embarrassed by
it because it was a lot of venting and not a lot of highly sophisticated or novel content.
So much appreciate you who journey with me and share or like my recordings. I don't allow
advertising on my channel, which would be way too ironic for me to stomach. I will leave you with a
Blackfoot phrase. Stomachucked, Omanist, Olauacucked. Stomachucked, Omanist, Olauacucked. A simple
translation of which is keep going. Keep on keeping on. The complex translation of which is
in the winter when the buffalo herds are starving and they can't get food and there's ice everywhere.
The old bulls who no longer reproduce would have massive head and neck strength, body strength,
massive horns. They smash through the ice and carve a path in it so that the herd
and the children will not perish but will come to food. Thank you for joining me. I look forward
to learning again together very soon. Bye bye for now.
