Hello everybody. Welcome.
I'm out for a walk in the sunlight
and I've been listening to
Rupert Sheldrake
his presentation called Is the Universe Conscious?
And lately I've been spending quite a bit of time listening to
physicists
and Brian Green is the ubiquitous interviewer
in many of these
or the moderator.
If I remember correctly, he's the author of The Elegant Universe, which I read
very shortly after it was released.
Hey, in the late 90s
it's an introduction to string theory,
which I found quite fascinating and was certainly seminal
in helping me understand or giving me a sort of foundation
to think about identity in a very different way.
And that way involves the concept of refreshment.
And I'll get into that as we proceed.
A couple of brief notes.
First of all, thank you to everybody who listens to
and supports and shares my recordings.
I'm deeply grateful to you.
And if you enjoy them, kindly take a moment to like them
or share them, or if you want, you can support me on Patreon.
I do provide all of my content without advertisement,
which means I get far less airplay.
But nobody likes to hear the blaring voices of people
selling us stuff during times when we're thinking deeply.
And also I want to apologize for any noise that might be in the recordings.
It's a little breezy today,
and my mic makes a little noise as it brushes against my jacket.
So thank you for bearing with me.
I have a couple of ideas that I want to pursue today,
but before I do, I'll get back to this concept of refreshment.
Many of us understand the idea that if you have a strobe light
that's going on and off and you turn it up to a high enough frequency
of going on and off, it appears to always be on.
And the idea, one of the central ideas to string theory,
is that there are no particles.
There are these little strings that sort of warble and bounce around
at such a high frequency that they present to certain experimental machines
and to thought the concept that a particle is there.
Of course, underlying quantum mechanics is the concept of the Schrodinger equation
by Erwin Schrodinger,
which I believe arose sometime in the 20s or 30s, 19.
And it puzzled Schrodinger very deeply and troubled him and others
and still does very deeply.
And the trope that we hear about it, the Schrodinger's cat trope,
that before we open a box with a cat in it,
the cat is in a superposition of states because it's not being observed.
Now, this is a very complex problem and I certainly don't intend to solve it here,
but many of the popular ideas surrounding this are mostly wrong.
It's not so much the fact that an observer interacts with the complex wave state
of the universe in some local position causing a collapse.
The key feature here is the word cause.
This idea has been presented in such a way as to imply things like manifesting.
If you just collapse the wave in the right way, everything goes your way and so on.
I think those ideas are childish.
What's actually going on is something far more sophisticated
and it doesn't necessarily depend.
We don't know really yet what the relationship is between observation or measurement
and the collapse, though we have some clues about it, I think,
we being the scientific community that actually spends time empirically examining these ideas.
To go back to refreshment, you can see that in our computer monitors,
I'm not sure what the actual situation is,
but most of them, at least the old CRTs used to have a refresh rate.
I'm not sure what the mechanism of the sort of modern screens that we see is,
but effectively on a screen you can draw a single pixel and you can give it values of red, green and blue,
and then you can continue to draw one pixel across horizontally the however many lines we have, 2374 or whatever.
If you draw the single pixel fast enough, what appears to the eye is a solid stable image.
This idea turns out to be incredibly profound if we transfer it to physical processes by way of a kind of a game.
One could imagine that every position in time space is being refreshed in a similar fashion,
such that it goes from the oldest position to the freshest position in each refresh rate phase.
And it's happening so quickly and in such a profound way in terms of its dimensionality
that the physical universe appears to us to be solid when in fact most of the time it's not there.
You can imagine another model where like a strobe light that keeps speeding up when the off phase is current,
all beings, minds, positions, situations, histories and futures collapse to unity.
And then in a flash the on phase happens and they return to distinction and in the unity phase information is shared.
And so in a toy model like this most of the time everything is not even one, it's unity.
And one is the number we use to represent unity, but one requires a background against which it must exist.
And so actually we need some Greek symbol or something that means all positions, wave states and so on, are unified.
Information is shared and then poof the next the light turns back on and everything returns to a position slightly different
but very similar to the ones that they last occupied.
Now this is a toy model but it's a very profound model because if something like it or something that resembles it is true,
it explains many features of our experience particularly our non-ordinary experience that are otherwise pretty tough to get a grip on.
So in this case with this model we would imagine that the universe is collapsing to unity and expanding back to distinction,
and the appearance of separation at an unimaginable rate of speed that's been increasing since the beginning of the universe.
Again just a toy but a very useful toy and there are ways to interact with the toy whereby we might get some experience of both the unity
and the unimaginable intelligence that abides in the process and that intelligence seems to me to be the origin of our own minds and consciousness.
Now Rupert is a brilliant scientist and a very articulate and humane speaker.
It's always a joy to listen to him and he's been for many years now the champion of a non-materialistic view of consciousness in the universe.
Of course what do we mean by consciousness?
I think when we use this catch-all term we should be careful to think more deeply about it.
But we mean things I mean things like things that are related to words such as intelligence, awareness, consciousness, experience, transcendence, enlightenment and so on.
We sort of capture these ideas under the single rubric of consciousness or at least that's my intention.
Now it should be obvious that consciousness is layered and a bit like an onion it has infinite layers and so too the other words that I use, awareness, intelligence.
And by intelligence I don't mean solving problems, I mean insightful, vital perception and awareness.
Fundamentally insight is an experience very different from thinking.
Thinking is rather quotidian in how it tends to proceed for most of us even when we're trying to solve problems.
Insight is shocking.
When we experience insight it's accompanied by many different feelings some of which involve awe, the urge to exclaim or even swear in the sense of epithets.
We are suddenly overwhelmed with a completely new understanding and perspective or maybe multiple perspectives where before we only had one.
Our language inclines us to this unitarian expectation.
I will see the way, I will see the truth instead of you know there are very few features of nature that are singular in this way including our own hands.
Our minds are certainly not born for this.
It's a feature of language and culture that we expect one thing to overwhelm all others.
And in insight sometimes this is true but it's also true that we can entertain multiple positions of perspective at the same time.
Even if many of them conflict and the synergy of those perspectives produces insight and wonder and awe.
And in my own experience it's very important to distinguish between thinking and insight.
Insight is a radical reformulation of fundamental primitives in thought awareness and consciousness.
Many of us have only very rare experience of insight.
And when I'm seeking it it seems native primarily to conversations with passionately curious others.
I can have conversations with myself but even if I am doing that or I am writing,
I am imagining the inclusion of an audience whose concerns correlate with my own.
So one of the important features I want to again highlight is that whatever we might mean by consciousness,
there's always a next layer beyond what we may be thinking about or what we are experiencing.
So that for example, if an insect is conscious and we also use this word sentient,
which seems to mean something like aware of the body and the self as a distinct being and capable of imagination,
problem solving and so on.
So much of our thought and experiment is concerned with problem solving,
which I think is partly natural but also partly a side effect of the mechanization of the universe
that was the result, hello, of the transformation in thought that begins at the origin of the age of reason.
When suddenly all ideas of metaphysical, supernatural, spiritual, divine,
originary beings and intelligences were summarily dismissed.
The universe was emptied of being and the empiricists became fundamentally concerned with the mechanics of things,
forces, causes, how situations unfold over time, prediction and so on.
So what I want to make clear is whatever layer of consciousness we may be experiencing as our own,
even now as I speak, there are endless layers beyond that.
I won't say above because some of them are within us.
In fact, it may be that we have access to many, if not most of them,
but our habits and circumstances, our social contexts and environments, script and limit us to a catastrophic degree.
So that much of what we usually experience is tedious and representational.
So if there is consciousness in an ant and I say there is something like it there,
though super organisms such as ant's bees and wasps certainly are a unique example
of how consciousness might be embodied where the intelligence is primarily distributive rather than local.
And yes, these words are troubling, intelligence, consciousness, awareness, what do I mean, so on.
But we can use them in the relatively common way with some degree of safety, I think.
So Sheldrake was at pains to point out that through most of human history everything was understood to be a being.
The earth was a being, the ocean was a being, the mountain was a being.
Now there's a fascinating history here, the history of the cognitive evolution of our species.
And I'm not going to chase that topic too much at the moment because I have a couple of goals I want to wander toward.
But certainly if the sun is intelligent, conscious, aware, an actual being,
it is staggeringly transcendental to what it usually means to be a human being.
And we would find if we looked a sort of scalar array of beings and intelligences
that span the interval between what we would think of as the universal and the particular.
The caveat there is that the particular participates in the universal.
And so there's this constant intimate relationship between the intelligences that we might understand to inhabit time space,
whether or not they are specifically, particularly embodied,
I think we should imagine distributed intelligences that participate directly in all minds and beings in all of time.
And of course, these are the ideas that in English have not many reference.
One of them is angel, another might be deva or jinn, another might be daemon or demon, demigods, gods and goddesses.
And then we have the sort of, not the sort of, along with that we have the idea of the unity.
God imagined as the collective either as the collection of all beings and intelligences in all universes,
or their creator separate from them, separate from them, but having the property of being their progenitor.
So whatever we might mean by these terms, we should imagine both the topology, even among any given class of beings,
where you have incredibly intelligent and prodigious geniuses,
and then you have sort of the other end of that scale, however we might like to think of that.
And we usually think of it as rather mechanical and robotic or unfeeling, insensitive, aware only of the mechanics.
And even among that field there's a topology, there are mountains and valleys,
and there are people, for example, whose mechanical or mathematical intelligence is so profound that they themselves become prodigies.
Alright. So I want us to always think about topologies when we think about any topic or subject,
or particular feature of experience that we have a name for, like a tree.
There are probably trees who are nearly impossible to communicate,
and there are other trees who can probably directly communicate very freely with humans and other animals.
Now, Sheldrake was presenting an argument that posited a kind of a bipolar situation between empiricists and panpsychists.
The panpsychists being the people who think everything is conscious, all different kinds,
it's a big symphony of consciousness that consciousness has reflected in us and also participated in by us.
And the materialist empiricists who think consciousness is something we need to explain away and get rid of,
doesn't really do anything, not testable, the universe is a mechanical accident.
Now, it turns out the first topic that I want to touch on here is that, and there's some delicate terrain to traverse.
These styles of thought, these philosophical positions, and there's certainly not two, right?
There's a jungle of different panpsychist perspectives in a similar jungle of empiricists and or materialist perspectives.
But to make things easy, we'll collect them all together and make a generalization.
And what I want to talk about is that usually when we have conversations like this,
it's common to ask each other what we believe, what we think is true, and why we think so and so on.
But that's not the best game for lots of reasons, though it's very useful when we choose to engage in it.
It can be very useful if the participants are curious and insightful, passionate and complex.
The problem is that obviously we're very concerned in our thinking with what is true.
And so when we use the word belief, we curate our own position on truthfulness.
These are the things that I think are real and good and true.
The rest of that stuff over there is probably nonsense or should be dismissed.
Now this turns out to be problematical for a number of reasons.
Belief itself turns out to be quite a trouble spot for humans.
And the reason it's a trouble spot can be stated very simply.
When we become so biased in our thinking that we feel that we've looked at all the questions,
come to a perspective that we trust and believe, then effectively our mind collapses into our beliefs.
And we become either unwilling or certainly handicapped in entertaining other perspectives.
Now nobody has the final truth.
And if there's a person called nobody, maybe we could talk with them and find out what that final truth is.
We're all in the position of learning and the scope of what we can learn is certainly not merely infinite.
It's a library of multi-dimensional infinities.
So our learning capacities are not limited until we begin to believe things.
And the picture I want to present here is the analogy of clothing.
You can imagine someone who believes that they are their clothing.
And this is the problem with belief.
It subsumes our intelligence, our curiosity, our imagination, our creativity, and then presents a finished product.
Now I'm not saying necessarily that we should eschew belief,
but we should be very cautious about it because you don't want to exchange the clothing for the being inside.
That would be a catastrophic loss of liberty.
