And the between of us is where the relationship takes place, not in me as me.
And selfishness is everywhere recognized as problematical and dangerous.
Benevolence is, it seems, fundamentally associated with the concern for the welfare, growth, liberation, education, progress of all beings in all of time, but certainly here on earth all human beings or all of the organisms of earth.
So it's very easy to tell the difference between someone who wants what a demon has to offer, which is intrinsically selfish in this model, and someone who wants benefit for everyone.
And this is part of the handshake.
It turns out that the signal of recognition in the my arc in time space itself is the memory of the unity of origin and the presentation of the recognition of the intimate relatedness of all beings.
Relatedness is actually the wrong idea, although in the world of separation this idea will suffice.
It's the recognition of fundamental unity, communion of all beings, as if there's just one being in all of time space.
And this being is multi-layered and multi-dimensional and appears as humans, or ants, or mountains, or oceans, living worlds, stars, black holes, time space, quantum physics, everything.
Someone who brings the signal of recognition to a situation that could become very dangerous will often find that it transforms, but this can't be done in a calculated way.
It's a dance.
We negotiate together.
It's not one person does one thing, the other person does another, and so on.
But this game is fundamental not just to meeting other beings and non-human intelligences.
It's fundamental to all of nature.
Every single being in all of nature understands this game.
The one who brings the memory of origin invokes communion, and that situation releases us into, from something that could be competitive or violent, into the opportunity of an amnesis,
of the recollection and recognition of our fundamentally communal nature.
There's much more to be explored here, but I wanted to present just a little bit of some of the thoughts that I had during my conversation.
I'm going to pause for the moment, and I may take up this recording again soon.
In case I don't, thank you for joining me.
I look forward to learning together again very soon.
