So, we left the four elders sitting on the marble bench in which museum?
This is in Washington, D.C. I can't remember if I actually met them at the Smithsonian
to begin with or at our hotel.
I think it was probably at our hotel, but it was very regal, it was right down by the
mall somewhere, it was fancy digs, and that night I just remember it was kind of a romantic
night. I came into, there were four or five people on the bench, there was somebody I
didn't know, a young woman, and the others that I met from before, and I think Narciss
and Martin were there, I think, and on that bench. And I think it was one of the two of
them that was like, you know, oh, you came all the way from Harvard? What are you doing
here? I thought you were with Harvard. I'm like, no, no, no, no. That's where I explained
it, right there at that bench. They still didn't know? They didn't know. The whole time?
No. Oh my goodness. They still thought I was from Harvard. Wow. So yeah, I think one of
the guys was Narciss, because at that point we rented a limousine. And I was in the limousine,
I know, with Narciss and Alvin, his wife, and the young woman who was Margaret Croppard
Wolf, the one who I didn't know, the new player in the group. And we drove around Washington,
D.C. that night and looked at all the cool sights, like we were like, you know, to the
limo driver, you know, take us to the Lincoln Memorial, take us to this, take us to that,
we just went to all the cool sights and looked at them with the night lights shining on them
and all that stuff. It was our opportunity, really. We weren't going to have time. We
were going to see the museum the next day, and then we were going to be off to New York.
So it was that night to see Washington, D.C. for that. I'd already been there. But it was
a different kind of visit. And so it was fun. I toured that night with Narciss and Alvin
and Margaret and went around to those all around Washington, D.C. and had fun. And then the next
day, we went to the Smithsonian. And the Smithsonian security is the highest order. Like I was
military intelligence. I was a signals intelligence analyst in the US Army in 98 Charlie.
I worked top secret missions and stuff. And
like the areas that I worked were not nearly as protected as the Smithsonian's museum storage.
So to get into the Smithsonian's museum storage, what you have to do is go right down to the mall
to the Smithsonian. You have to have it set up beforehand, of course. But when the time has
come and your day is there and your appointment's there, you're going to go into storage in the
Smithsonian. You go down to the mall to the appropriate museum. Mine was the Natural History
Museum. You give them your passport and driver's license. And in exchange for that, they give you
a identification card that lets you onto a bus. That bus drives you out of Washington, D.C. into
Maryland to a storage facility. It looks like I've seen lots of maximum security prisons in my life
across the country. It looks like a maximum security prison. It's all razor wire, you know,
double set perimeter. And you go through a gate that the van driver takes you through a gate.
You pull up to the facility and when you go in the doors, you exchange your badge that they gave
you at the museum for a badge at the storage place and you fill out some paperwork about yourself.
Just basic stuff, you know, they've already set this up. And you basically you're just signing in,
you're taking a badge and all this. And then they assign you an escort. And so for each
member of our party, there was a Smithsonian escort
to go through the facilities with us.
Wow. And it's massive. Hey, their facility is massive. Yeah, they got a lot of stuff.
And I've been at the new facility next door to that now as well, which is the new facility for
the American Museum of the National Museum of the American Indian, which is a newer
complex, even more high tech. But all the security stuff is the same. Hey,
you have to really go through your shit.
Yeah, so it's and then we went through the Smithsonian. We videotaped it.
Oh, wait, was that the time? No, we didn't videotape that time, sketch that.
I went back to the Smithsonian later and videotaped it with Alan and Chris.
That time, what happened was the very first thing, like Joyce had sent me there to take
photographs of everything in the collections and to take notes of everything, you know,
that they were saying about the collections and all that stuff to document the whole thing, right?
Right. So I took out my camera
right away and started getting set up. And Martin, my future father-in-law, said to me,
I hope this isn't going to end up in the National or the National Geographic.
I hope this isn't going to end up in the National Geographic.
And then I was like, I don't got to take photographs if you don't want. And I put it away.
And that seemed to buy me something, you know, with Martin, maybe with others too.
Yeah. The rest of the day, we looked at the whole collection. I took lots of notes and
everything of what they were talking about, what they were saying and all of this.
But clearly, there was a concern about using the camera.
There was a concern about using the camera.
And it's an important concern that is easy to overlook because the way we live today.
Yep.
Right. It's a very important concern.
Yeah. There was a concern about the camera. There were parts of the day where people broke down.
They were crying. I ended up consoling the young woman. And
we started getting along better through that day.
By the end of the day, we were on a plane trip to New York
with our Smithsonian notes in hand. And me and her were getting along really well.
We were going to stay in
the, what are this place that they had booked us? Like somebody in tribal government had booked
us this ratty ass place in New York City. They didn't know what they were doing, you know.
And the place that they booked us, we went to, we cabbed to. And it was just like
gross. And it was like a squalor. Yeah. Shared, you know, shared bedrooms,
shared washrooms, like shared washrooms between like four people in two bedrooms,
kind of things. And me and this girl were like, oh, we'll stay together.
And we ended up like choosing to stay in a room. But then, oh, Francis first Charger was there.
Yeah. Now I remember he was there too. And he was like, no, we're not staying in this place.
Right. He got a hold of us. He's like, no, we're not staying here. We're getting out of here.
We're going to have a meeting with Sumitomo Corporation downtown tomorrow. But they have
put us, they have set us up with rooms in Penn Station or Pennsylvania Hotel,
which is right above Penn Station. They're expensive, but you know, we just got to make it
work. Right. So we taxied over to Pennsylvania Hotel. And then,
again, like me and Margaret, we're like, oh, we'll just, we'll just room together
and split the costs. And if I remember Frank like intervening and being like,
like, hey, I can, I can give you money for another room, not extra room. We're like,
nah, we'll just make it work, you know. And so we ended up, we ended up rooming together in
Pennsylvania Hotel. We stayed there. I think in New York, we were there
three nights, maybe four nights, three or four nights. So we were in the American Museum of
Natural History, as well as the High Foundation, which was, it was down on Battery Park,
like where you can see like the Statue of Liberty and that kind of thing.
There was a big museum for American Indians called the High Foundation.
And then that was moved all that, all that collection. Well, the storage for that was in
Brooklyn, but they moved all that collection eventually to Washington, DC, to start the
National Museum of the American Indian. But back then in 1996, it was still in New York.
That's where we visited it first. So we were there three or four days. And
we saw a lot of things. And in terms of my life, the things that were pretty momentous in New York was
Allen, both Allen and Martin
confronted me one day and told me, you know, you're working with us on
these, bringing these bundles home. And you should probably get more involved in our ceremonies,
so you learn more about them. And so both of them invited me to their ceremonies.
Allen invited me to his,
I think it was, he had a thunder pipe still at the time. He had the beaver bundle too,
now, but it was new to him. I didn't get to see his beaver bundle quite yet.
I think he invited me to his thunder pipe and Martin too. And so
I continued the tour, but for me, I think the biggest, most momentous thing was probably just
those invites. And then how did those ceremonies take place that they invited you to?
That would have been in the summer of, that would have probably been June-ish
in 1996. What I mean is, did they take place after you went home?
Home. Back to, oh right, you're actually living on East Coast, aren't you?
Yeah. I was living in Boston at the time. Yeah, of course. Yeah. So where did the ceremonies
take place? In Alberta. When? Later? In June of 1996. And how long after the trip?
Really shortly, like weeks after. I see. Okay. I'm just trying to hold the timeline in my head.
Yeah. No, it was very, it was very quick. Like I did the first repatriation in May,
they came. And then by June, I was with them on this tour.
And by the end of the month, I was in ceremony in Alberta.
And were you visiting Alberta?
Yeah, I was staying. Well, I was, yeah, visiting. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. By June, I was there for
Martin. By the end of June, I was there for Martin and Alan's ceremonies. And then I was
invited back by Martin. Like that trip that I came out, I think I stayed a couple of weeks.
And I didn't even book anywhere to come, like anywhere to stay or anything. I just came.
And Alan set up a teepee for me. I stayed a couple of days at Alan's place. And then
Martin set up a teepee for me. And I was going to be working, like entering my stuff from my database
into the blood tribes system. And so that was closer to Martin's. And so I started staying at
Martin's. And he said. And you spent any time in a teepee before? No. That's what I thought.
Yeah, I lived in a teepee for those two weeks. First to Alan's and then at Martin's.
And then Martin invited me back for a go-karts in the Sundance that summer. So I came back and I was
back probably another couple, two, three weeks. And so I got to experience my first Sundance.
And while I was there. Well, that wasn't even the Sundance trip. I'm sorry. That was the first
trip when I came to the Thunder Pipes in the end of June. There was a day when I was working at Blood
at the Shot Bowl Sides building and standoff at the Blood Tribe headquarters,
entering my stuff in their database. And Frank came to the building and he asked if he could
take me to lunch in Fort McLeod. And so I told him, yeah. So I jumped in his truck and he took me
to lunch in Fort McLeod. But the whole thing was he was wanting to go after the Thunder pipe
that we had seen in the Smithsonian in Washington, D.C. And he wanted to go in after that as a vow
to try to like he had crippling arthritis like Mahoney, you know. He wanted to go after it to
like try to help his arthritis. And he wanted to go after it different. He said, I don't want to use
that law. He said, I want to use transfer. He said, I believe that the elders in the past that gave
the bundles to the museums did so to ensure that the bundles would be here, you know, for other
generations to use. But when they, when they did it, you know, however, like there's like there's
some stuff that we have documented where they actually, we know they transferred, you know,
to see a person. But there's other cases where it was just straight out bought.
And Frank, Frank was like, however, however, the Smithsonian got to this bundle,
because we didn't really know with that one. He's like, however, they got to this bundle,
he's like, I still like, I still consider the Smithsonian the current caretaker owner.
And I want to approach them like from my way, with with our kind of respect, I want them to
transfer to me. And of course, they don't know the ceremony. I'll have an elder there to do the
transfer. But I want their representatives there to transfer to me. And I'm going to pay them
like I would pay for a transfer of this bundle. And they know what the purpose is. And I'm going
to explain to them how this bundle came about, how transfer works, you're going to do that for me,
you're going to write that for me. And so that was my next mission was to write
Frank's repatriation, which was like no other repatriation. It was a transfer request.
Like we wrote it, like as if I'm going, because with those particular bundles,
even you don't go and ask for it yourself, you have a mediator go for you.
And we did it just like that. And the Smithsonian said that was the best
repatriation request they'd ever received. And he still
made the bundle come home, you know, wow. Yeah. But it didn't come home before I came back for the
Sundance. I was back for the Sundance before that bundle came home. So I was there for those
couple of pipe ceremonies. And then Martin asked me to come back for the Sundance,
which was mind blowing. Because, you know, if you're from the modern world, like I came in,
I flew into Great Falls and he picked me up there. And even coming from, you know, the east coast,
the city, when you fly into Great Falls, all you hear is the wind and it's so
different. It's such a different kind of quiet that you don't know. And then Martin drove me,
you know, up in Talberta, picked me up in Great Falls, drove me up into a giant camp.
And it was nighttime when we got in a giant camp of, you know, fire glowing tepees.
Like, like, I don't know, like, you know, like, it was like, it was like taking a time machine or
something. Like people were riding horses around camp and singing and it's crazy. It's so different,
you know. And, um, yeah, so I had the Sundance, went to the, spent time at the Sundance.
By that time, I was, I was still kind of messing around with that crappier wolf girl.
But I was also kind of checking out Martin's daughter and
started talking to her a little, one of Martin's daughters.
And, uh, and then I went back to Boston again.
What did I work on at that point?
What was the next repatriation?
I think that's, I think that's when the Hoopa contacted me
and wanted me to, uh, start talking to me about negotiating with them for Harvard.
Because they had been, they, the Hoopa from California had been really trying to get
their ceremonial things back from Harvard for a couple of years at least.
And just, was just getting shut down. And they heard that somebody got something out of there.
So like, can we hire you? We've got this anthropologist, um, who, who, uh, has worked
with us since the seventies, who'll help you, you know, she lives in New York City.
You can stay with her. She's got a giant Hoopa library, you know.
So I took a contract with the Hoopa, um, and then Martin invited me before I went
to the Hoopa or to New York City. I was still in Boston, but Martin had invited me to a
genotesis, a winter ceremony. And so I flew back out to Alberta, um, to do the genotesis.
And when that, at that point, like I couldn't stay in a teepee, it was winter.
So I stayed at Martin's house.
And he gave me a truck to use. And he said, uh, I need you to, um,
while you're staying here, you can use this truck, but I need you to drive Danielle around.
You know, she needs to, she has to go to college every day.
But wasn't just like, I'd take her to college, drop her off and bring her back home at the end
of the day and stuff. And then, but then in the evening, you know, if anything wasn't
particularly happened, Martin would be like, Hey, maybe you should take the truck and Danielle
and go into town and go see a movie or something. You know, like he was just encouraging us to be
around each other. It seemed to me. And, um, you know, one thing led to another. And then, um,
I was supposed to be going home. I was supposed to be going to Boston and then going to New York.
The, my flight
was a particular day and Martin was supposed to bring me down to Great Falls to, to set me off.
