As we headed down, he started going down the back roads of the, of the blood research.
Um, I never, I never, um, realized it, but we never got off the blood research.
Well, I know it now, but he is, he was just driving, he was just stalling,
driving around the back roads, driving around the back roads until my flight was, I'm going to be
late for my flight. Uh, and he's, uh, then, you know, I'm like, I'm not going to, we haven't even
crossed the border. I'm not going to make it. He's like, Oh yeah. Well, we, you should reschedule
your flight. Let's go to the lake and check out this, uh, there's this place where there's supposed
to be these human footprints from like 10,000 years ago. You know, let's go check those out.
So we went to go like explore and have fun and stuff, but basically I missed my flight
and I re rebooked my flight for like another week or something, an extra week. But that
bought me time, um, because Danielle and I had just kind of got found out by her parents and
by Martin and Pam that we were, uh, hanging out a little more than just driving her to school
and stuff and whatever. And, um, and so, um, I think Martin bought me some more time with her,
basically, you know, but anyway, uh, like I ended up staying there some more,
even though I was supposed to go. And then when I went, then I just sent Danielle a ticket to follow me.
And I brought her to New York, uh, with me and we subsequently eloped.
And I started working the hoop pockets, which is, uh, a whole nother story.
Um,
I don't know. Do we want to get into that part? Or do you have questions or about any, like,
I continued to do from there, like I just went into a repatriation, like eventually I get to the
meteorites and all that shit too. But, um, I continued to work Blackfoot repatriations,
but I started with a hoop out, contacting me, let me know that maybe
I can use what I'm doing to help, like other people and to make a living. Because I've been
here before, like doing all my repatriation stuff for the Blackfoot, just on my own dime,
uh, just for the experience. And
then the hoop out, contracting me, I thought, oh, well, one thing that I've got,
I've got a database of more than 4,000 worldwide museums that have native collections, you know,
maybe another tribe would want me to recontact those museums and ask for their
inventories, you know, or, you know, like, so I started pitching that around.
Eventually I got a bite on that from the confederate tribes of Grand Ron and Oregon,
where I grew up, the Kalapuya mostly. But yeah, before that, I was in New York. I lived in New
York City on City Island for, I think, I think Mahoney and I were there like four months,
something like that. The first part of the project,
we went to Harvard to go look at the collection. And I went with Hoopah's,
well, the whole thing, like I worked with her, her name was Lee Davis. She's a famous anthropologist.
She's from your area. She's at Berkeley, or her last place of employment was at Berkeley
that I knew of. But like after she worked with me, she went to Berkeley again. She'd been there before.
So she was with me the whole time, but me and her, not getting along very well at all,
me and Lee. Yeah. Yeah, I'd rather just do my own contract
and not have to be in any kind of thing with Lee.
But it was interesting. We went to Harvard first, and we were, this was even before Mahoney got there,
before Danielle, before I flew her there. When I first got there, our first step was,
we got to go look at the collection. So we went to Harvard, and
going through the collection, an event happened. We were pulling, like the way that we had it
working was, we were trying to photograph everything so we could take the photographs
and bring them back to California to the Hoopai elders and share the photographs with them,
and then get them talking about the things. So I could write my claim.
And when we were going through the stacks at the Peabody, Ann Marie was with me again,
Ann Marie Victor Howe, and she would actually like take the item from the drawer.
She might have to climb a ladder. A lot of things are up high and shit.
She takes an item from a drawer, and she passes it down to Lee.
And Lee would read out the tag number on it, and description,
and give it to me. And I had a clipboard that I would check off the item, so I knew we got
each item on the inventory. And when she passed it to me, I'd take the item, and I had a cart.
And I put it on the cart, and we were going to wheel that into another room
with better lighting and take photographs. So as we're going through the storage,
Ann Marie picks up this thing from a drawer up high and a ladder, and hands it down.
And Lee Davis says, stone pipe, 98127, whatever the fuck the number was, you know? Stone pipe,
and hands it to me. And as I'm like less than a second from touching it,
I can see that this is not a smoking pipe, but this is a stone pipe, but it's a board through.
Yeah. This is something that doctors used to suck sickness out of people with.
And that recognition hit my mind just as I touched it.
And then it was like electricity went through my body, and I started blacking out.
And it took everything, like all the concentration that I had
to put that thing on the cart and let go of it
before it blackened out. And I didn't black out, but wait, wait.
Okay. Finally six. Okay. We'll go to the next.
